<u><b>Q2(i): What are the legislation that affect gender-pricing?</b></u>
**Equality Act 2010**
- The Equality Act 2010 is the key anti-discrimination law for the UK.
- It prohibits insurers from directly or indirectly discriminating on the basis of a protected characteristic.
- Gender is one of the protected characteristics.
- Direct discrimination refers to treating someone less favourably as a result of their gender.
- Indirect discrimination refers to treating everyone in the same way, but particularly disadvantages a particular gender.
- Insurers need to be avoid using proxy factors (i.e. factors that are strongly correlated with gender) as this may be seen as indirect discrimination.

**EU Gender Directive**
- The EU Gender directive was directed at implementing the principle of fair treatment between men and women in the access and supply of goods and services.
- There was initially an opt-out of financial services and insurance products provided certain conditions were met.
- This was removed by CJEU for new business written on or after the date.
- Reviewable premiums are not treated as new business for the purpose of the legislation.
- In some areas, there were already requirements to offer unisex rates in some areas, i.e. annuities with protected rights.

<u><b>Q2(ii): What are the implications of gender-neutral pricing on pricing?</b></u>
**Pricing**
- The company can no longer price on the basis of gender.
- So, it will need to offer the same rates to both males and females.
- Prior to the ruling, the pricing basis would have assumed females live longer than males;
- as supported by industry data or company’s past experience.
- As such standard annuities used to cost more for females than males.
- So, under unisex pricing, it is likely females would be better off and males would be worse off.
- The actual position depends on how the company sets unisex rates in relation to the previous male/female rates.
- For example, it could set unisex rates to the male rate, the female rate, or an average of the two.
- The impact is smaller for joint life annuities sold to males and females.

**New business mix**
- The company needs to make an assumption about the future business mix of males and females that purchases its annuities.
- The company should still capture the gender information at point of sale.
- The company then needs to monitor this mix regularly;
- and reprice if the actual mix is different from the expected mix.
- The business mix would likely change under unisex pricing.
- The company would expect a more females buying annuities as unisex rates should be cheaper than female rates.
- The company would expect fewer males buying annuities, and purchasing other products, e.g. income drawdown.
- The company may change the target market to a particular sector with high proportion of males.
- For instance, it could target occupation classes that are highly correlated with gender.
- However, the company needs to be careful that targeting particular groups does not constitute indirect discrimination.
- If the company underestimates the proportion of females buying its annuities, its future experience is likely to be worse than expected;
- and losses or diminished profits may result.
- The company could add a risk margin to the pricing basis to reflect the uncertainty.
- The margin could be withdrawn as the mix stabilizes.
- The company may target a particular sector and be price competitive for this sector and less competitive elsewhere.
- Or it may target a particular sector in other ways, e.g. advertising in magazines predominantly bought by men.

**Competition**
- The company is exposed to anti-selection risk if it prices out of line with the rest of the market.
- The company needs to consider what competitors are doing;
- in relation to when they would comply with the regulations;
- and how they would set the unisex rates.

**New business volumes**
- Business volumes change significantly before and after the introduction of unisex rates.
- Just before the introduction of the unisex pricing, there may be a sharp increase in applications from men who want to buy an annuity on better terms offered by gender specific rates.
- Conversely, women may defer to purchase an annuity until after unisex pricing is introduced.

**Underwriting**
- The company may try to improve its risk classification by using other rating factors that are not excluded under the new regulation, e.g. postal code or location.
- The company could introduce medical underwriting.
- The company could enter the market for impaired life annuities if it has not done so already.
- If the company sells enhanced annuities it needs to consider the implications of unisex pricing of the sales of these products as well as standard annuities.
- But the ruling will have significantly less impact on impaired life annuities as the medical impairment may have a greater impact than gender on expected lifetime.

**Reinsurance**
- The company will need to consider the impact of changes on any existing reinsurance agreements;
- and consider whether it needs any new reinsurance agreements.
- Reinsurers may still be able to price according to gender.

**Business plans**
- If annuities are not a significant line for the company, it may decide to stop writing annuities, or stop sales until uncertainties reduce.
- The company may decide to sell more business in non-EU markets, where the ruling does not apply.
- It should be noted that there is no impact on the existing business, only for new business sales.

**Reserves**
- Reserves can still be set according to gender.
- Overall capital requirements may be higher initially due to uncertainties in new business mix.
- The cost of this additional capital could reduce annuity rates.

**Expenses**
- Changes to new business volumes could impact per policy expenses.
- The implementation of unisex rates may generate additional costs, e.g. changes needed to be made to marketing literature and pricing systems.

<u><b>Q2(iii): What are the implications of gender-neutral pricing on risk management?</b></u>
**General points**
- The company needs to assess all of its key risk areas in light of the ruling.
- The company may decide to introduce more thorough monitoring of risks;
- and more frequent risk reporting to senior management.

**Market risk**
- Unisex rates are better value for women, so it is likely a greater proportion of sales would be made to women in the past.
- As women live longer on average, the company would need to match this liability with longer dated bonds than in the past.
- There is a risk the company does not modify its investment strategy to take account of the revised business mix and the impact on average longevity.
- It may invest in bonds that are too short, and so be exposed to reinvestment risk.
- Controls need to be put in place to ensure new business mix is monitored regularly and feeds into the bond selection.

**Operational risk**
- There may be mis-selling risk in respect of new business written just prior to and after the change; with the corresponding reputational risks.
- For example, women might complain they were sold an annuity based on female rates when they could have received a better unisex rate shortly afterwards.
- There may be project risks in respect of the implementation of the ruling.
- For example, unisex annuity rates may be incorrectly determined or applied.
- This can be reduced by good project management, system testing and staff training.
- The company will need to assess the impact of new business volumes on its operational risks.
- Sales may be quite lumpy as there may be high volumes sold to men who are trying to get the better male rate before the change, and high sales to women who wait after the change to get the unisex rate.
- The resulting high sales volumes in a short period may increase the risk of poor customer service.
- Controls could be introduced to limit sales volumes.
- There may be risks relating to the servicing of complaints, e.g. related to mis-selling.
- There may be risks of a legal challenge if the company uses rating factors that are deemed to be a proxy for gender.
- Marketing literature may be overlooked or updated incorrectly.

**Longevity risk**
- There is a risk of anti-selection by women who are likely to purchase an annuity with unisex pricing.
- Anti-selection could be controlled by increased underwriting (e.g. new rating factors), monitoring the business mix by gender, and increase reinsurance.
- Anti-selection would be more prevalent amongst policyholders who are aware of the relative life expectancies between men and women.

**Expense risk**
- There is a risk of expense overruns in relation to the development of new systems and processes, revising annuity rates.
- There is a risk that new business volumes fall by more than expected as a result of the change;
- and hence fixed expenses may no longer be covered.

**New business mix risk**
- There is a risk that the split between males and females is different to that expected.

**Credit/counterparty risk**
- If the company decides to introduce more insurance as a result of the ruling, the reinsurers need to be added to the counterparty exposure list and monitored appropriately.
- The company will need to assess the likelihood of default of any new reinsurers;
- and also assess if any existing agreements will be impacted by the change.

**Liquidity risk**
- There may be short-term implications for liquidity if policyholders decide to advance or defer their retirement around the implementation date of the change.
- Controls will be needed to focus on monitoring and anticipating changes in these retirement patters;
- and ensuring there are adequate liquid asset holdings to cover any temporary uncertainty.

<u><b>Q2(iv): How to model expected future mortality for pricing new annuity?</b></u>
**Objectives**
- Mortality rates need to be determined for each rating factor used in pricing.
- The main rating factor will be age, but other factor such as premium size or location may be used.

**Gather data**
- The company could use industry mortality tables as the base table (e.g. CMI '00' or '08' tables).
- It would then compare its own experience against the base table.
- Reinsurers may be able to provide additional data and expertise.

**Adjust data for different features of the contract**
- The base table should be adjusted to reflect the company's actual experience and target market.
- An assumption has to be made about the expected new business mix by gender. We would expect a higher proportion of females following the introduction of unisex rates.
- If the company sells impaired life or enhanced annuities, then the mortality tables for this business would have to be modelled under different medical outcomes.
- The mortality rates for standard business would have to reflect the likely better than average health of those policyholders since they have not chosen to purchase an impaired life annuity.

**Adjust data for improving longevity**
- The data then needs to be adjusted to allow for expected improvements in future mortality.
- The rate of improvement would need to reflect the expected mix of males and females.
- Mortality projections tend to involve an element of each of the expectation, extrapolation and explanatory approaches.
- Mortality projections can be based on information supplied by experts or industry bodies (e.g. CMI).
- But this should be adjusted for the company’s own experience.
- However, the insurer is unlikely to have sufficient historical data with which to identify trends fully.
- Assumptions may therefore be based on analysis of population or pension scheme data, with adjustments.
- Mortality improvements in the UK exhibit a ‘cohort' effect.
- This is due to changes in lifestyles or habits (such as smoking) being more marked within a specific cohort.
- The company will need to consider whether and how to apply the cohort effect to its own policyholders.
- The company could use a stochastic mortality projection methodology.
- For example, the P-spline and Lee-Carter approaches.
- More complex underlying statistical models could be used e.g. including postcode as a proxy to socio-economic factors.
- Cause-specific mortality rates could be modelled.
- Although this is very difficult to do in a robust way, particularly allowing for interactions between the factors.
- Assumptions at very old ages are very uncertain as there is very limited data.

**Expectation, extrapolation, and explanatory approaches**
- Expectation approaches involve expert opinion and subjective judgement to specify a range of future scenarios.
- Extrapolation approaches are based on projecting historical trends in mortality into the future.
- Such methods also require some element of subjective judgement; for example, in the choice of period over which such trends are to be determined.
- Explanatory, or process-based projections attempt to model trends in mortality rates from a bio-medical perspective.
- These projections are only effective to the extent that the processes causing death are understood and can be mathematically modelled.

**Add margins**
- There is model, parameter, and stochastic uncertainty.
- So, a margin should be included by assuming lower mortality rates.

**Reserving**
- Pricing needs to project reserving assumptions as well as experience assumptions, e.g. to allow for cost of capital in profit test.
- The reserving assumptions need to be consistent with the projected experience basis mortality assumptions described above.
- The reserving assumptions need to meet regulatory requirements.
- For example, they must contain sufficient prudential margins.

<u><b>Q2(v): What are the implications of using a longevity swap?</b></u>
**Advantages**
- Longevity swaps can be used to hedge the longevity risk from the annuity business.
- The future unknown annuity payments could be converted into a fixed cost so the longevity uncertainty is removed for the insurance company.
- This should reduce the company’s solvency capital requirements;
- and improve stability in the balance sheet.

**Disadvantages**
- The company does not hedge investment risk.
- Entering into a swap arrangement introduces counterparty risk, i.e. it is exposed to the risk that the counterparty defaults on its obligations.
- There is a cost involved, e.g. counterparty fee.
- The potential future profits arising from worse than expected longevity will accrue to the counterparty.
- The company may need to post collateral which increases liquidity risk.
- If the floating payments are based upon the actual annuity payments, then the insurance company has indemnified itself against its longevity risk (indemnity-based longevity swap).
- However, if the floating payments are based on a generic population mortality index, the company retains basis risk.
- The company will incur costs administering the swap.
- The longevity swap may be more expensive/cheaper than a reinsurance agreement so it may be more/less preferable.
- If the swap is based on gender-neutral policies, the swap may require the business mix of male and female to be in a pre-specified range for which the counterparty would be able to assess future expected cashflows.
- There is a risk that the company does not achieve this business mix.
- The company may have little experience of this arrangement and may accept inappropriate terms.
- The company could seek out external advice on the arrangements.
- Changes in regulations may make the arrangements more or less advantageous.