<u><b>Q1(i): What are future policy related liabilities?</b></u>
**Future policy related liabilities**
- Cost of guarantees
- Cost of smoothing
- Cost of financial options
- Cost of planned future enhancements

<u><b>Q1(ii)</b></u>
- $AS = 10,000 * 1.05^2 * 0.9 = 9,923$
- $SAS = 10,000 * (1.01^2 * 1.05)^{1/3} * (1.01 * 1.05^2)^{1/3} * 0.9 = 10,499$
- $GB = 8,000 * 1.03^2 * 0.9 = 7,638$
- $Payout = max(GB,SAS) = 10,499$
- $COG = max(GB, AS) – AS = 9,923 – 9,923 = 0$
- $COS = Payout – max(GB, AS) = 10,499 – 9,923 = 576$

<u><b>Q1(iii)</b></u>
- $\text{FER in 2014 and 2015 = average of -50\% and = -25\%}$
- $AS = 10,000 * 0.75^2 * 0.9 = 5,063$
- $SAS = 10,000 * (1.01^2 * 0.75)^{1/3} * (1.01 * 0.75^2)^{1/3} * 0.9 = 7,499$
- $GB = 8,000 * 1.03^2 * 0.9 = 7,638$
- $Payout = max(GB, SAS) = 7,638$
- $COG = max(GB, AS) – AS = 7,638 – 5,063 = 2,575$
- $COS = Payout – max(GB, AS) = 7,638 – 7,638 = 0$

<u><b>Q1(iv): What management actions are likely taken in negative investment environment?</b></u>
**Potential management actions**
- The company may have reduced reversionary bonuses since returns are negative.
- This reduces the guaranteed benefit at maturity.
- The COG reduces since the guarantee is biting.
- The COS increases if the GB was reduced to below the SAS such that COS = SAS – max(GB, AS).
- The company may have reduced the equity backing ratio to protect solvency.
- This increases the investment returns.
- The COG decreases since the AS increases.
- The COS decreases since the AS increases more rapidly than the SAS due to three-year averaging.
- The company may have reduced the level of smoothing.
- The COG does not change.
- The COS decreases if the payout were based on the smoothed asset share (i.e. other actions were taken to cause the guarantee to no longer bite).
- The company may have changed the market value reduction to apply to the smoothed asset share as they may be PRE there would be some smoothing on withdrawals in such extreme investment environment.
- The withdrawal benefit would be larger than the asset share.
- The COG does not change.
- The COS would increase on withdrawals.
- All management actions need to comply with TCF, PRE, and PPFM.
- There may be delays in implementing management actions;
- e.g. delays in selling equities in a depressed market;
- system constraints;
- PRE on how quickly bonuses can change.

**Potential policyholder actions**
- The company may have assumed fewer policyholders would withdraw and instead wait for the guaranteed benefit at maturity.
- The COG increases.
- The COS increases.
- Alternatively, the company may have assumed more policyholders would withdraw but this contradicts the COG and COS calculations under stress.

<u><b>Q1(v): Why insurers do not assume more onerous reserve?</b></u>
**Solvency II**
- Under Solvency II, insurers have to make best estimate assumptions on policyholder behaviour.
- Assuming all policyholders take the GAO when it is in the money is unlikely and overly prudent.
- As policyholders have different needs.
- Therefore, it is not appropriate for the BEL.

**Policyholder needs**
- Some policyholders may prefer to take the benefit as a lump sum rather than the GAO.
- For example, to repay an outstanding loan or to go on an expensive holiday.
- There may be pensions legislation offering flexibility or tax advantages on a portion or the full amount to be taken as a lump sum.
- The insurer then needs to make a best estimate assumption on the lump sum amounts taken.
- The market for annuities may have undergone significant repricing, e.g. gender-neutral pricing.
- This may result in open market female annuities having better rates than the GAO.
- The policyholder may be in ill health and would be eligible for an impaired life annuity;
- which would have better rates than standard life annuities.

**Impact of GAO on reserves**
- It is more likely policyholders in better health take the GAO as they expect to live longer, while those in ill health take the lump sum.
- There is anti-selection risk
- Therefore, the company has to assume a lighter mortality for the policyholders taking the GAO.

<u><b>Q1(vi): What are the conditions to use prospective approach for with profits benefit reserve (WPBR)?</b></u>
- The prospective approach must take account of all guaranteed benefits.
- The prospective approach must take account of the need for TCF.
- The prospective approach must use a sufficiently long projection term to account for all material cashflows arising from the contracts.

<u><b>Q1(vii): How to set payouts and bonuses for with-profits whole life assurances?</b></u>
**Possible actions for payouts**
- The company could use asset shares to determine payouts.
- However, these may be unreliable at old ages.
- The company could use specimen endowment contracts to maintain consistency with the previous approach.
- The company could use a prospective method.,
- The company will need to consider the assets backing the reserves and the asset share.
- If whole-life asset shares are very different to the current implied assets for the expected payout, these need to be rebased.
- This may be inconsistent in total or by cohort.
- Any inconsistencies should be addressed before a new approach is implemented.
- The company needs to ensure the approach aligns with the PPFM, TCF and PRE.
- Changes need to be applied gradually due to PRE over payouts.

**Possible actions for payouts**
- The company may need to set rules on how bonuses should increase with duration as there is no natural maturity date for whole life contracts on which to equate asset shares.
- The company could set a new bonus series going forward.
- The company could convert the whole life contracts into without profits contracts; however, this is likely to go against PRE and creates bad publicity.
- The company should consider the views of the Chief Actuary.
- The company should consider the views of the With-Profits Actuary.

<u><b>Q1(viii): How to calibrate a simplified model?</b></u>
**Model design**
- The simplified model needs to be calibrated to give a good fit to the scenarios of a complex model.
- The company needs to determine how many scenarios to use.
- Too few scenarios may make it too simplistic to represent the full range of outcomes.
- Too many scenarios may make it too difficult to fit the model.
- The company needs to determine how many parameters to use.
- Too few parameters may lead to underfitting and a good fit cannot be achieved.
- Too many parameters may lead to overfitting and give false accuracy.
- The company needs to ensure the chosen scenarios reflect management actions.
- Because it is the management actions that make the model fitting complex**.**

**Solvency II model**
- The company needs to choose scenarios which give a good fit to the base scenario and in a range of stressed scenarios.
- The company needs to ensure the different stressed risk drivers would result in overall 1/200 stress.
- Ensuring a suitable fit in the tails is important but difficult.
- A goodness of fit tool may help, but trial and error are likely required.
- Once the polynomial is fitted, the company must choose other scenarios to check goodness of fit.
- Further iterations of fitting may be required if the fit is inadequate.
- If full policy-by-policy run takes too much time/resources, the company may consider model points.
- The model points need to adequately represent the ungrouped policies in terms of, for example, the moneyness of guarantees.
- Large differences would require investigation and/or recalibration.
- TAS 100 should be followed.
- Documentation will be vital.
- The company may seek validation from external parties.