<u><b>Q1(i)</b></u>
**What are asset shares used for in a with-profits fund?**
**Treating customers fairly**
- Policy asset shares are widely used in with-profits companies as a benchmark for determining the level of payouts to with-profits policyholders and as an input to the consideration and quantification of any requirement to treat customers fairly.
- Asset shares may be used as a guide to what constitutes a fair payout, but a payout different to asset share isn't necessarily unfair.
- The definition and the way the company uses asset shares must be consistent with the description in its customer-facing literature (such as the PPFM in the UK).

**Maturity payouts and terminal bonus**
- Most companies using the 'addition to benefits' method use asset shares as a guide for determining maturity values.
- Terminal bonus can be calculated using asset shares for the maturing cohort;
- the asset shares are then compared to the contractual benefits of the cohort;
- terminal bonus is based on the excess of the asset shares over contractual benefits;
- subject to the company's smoothing policy.
- Policy asset shares are also used by most companies to help the smoothing process for maturity values.
- The smoothing profit / loss can be calculated each year as the excess of the asset share over the actual payouts to policyholders.
- An alternative to calculating payouts using asset shares for a maturing cohort is to consider a typical example policy.
- Maturity payouts may be based on a smoothed asset share.
- Firms may specify target ranges around 100% of asset share within which 90% of maturity payouts must lie.
- Monitoring the profits and losses from smoothing each year can help companies ensure that it pays out an average asset share over time.
- This ensures smoothed payouts are fair overall.

**Surrender values**
- Many companies use asset shares in setting surrender values;
- including market value reductions on unitised with-profits business.
- Typically less smoothing is applied to surrenders than to maturities.
- The surrender value may deviate from the asset share as the policy nears maturity;
- in order to ensure that the surrender value runs smoothly into maturity value.
- Similarly, at early durations, the surrender value may be greater than the asset share;
- as the asset share may be too low to meet policyholder expectations.
- Asset shares may also be used to ensure that he altered benefits are supportable, 
- e.g. for paid-up policies.

**Regular bonus**
- Asset shares can be used to provide a guide to the appropriate level of regular annual bonus.
- The bonus earning capacity provides the company with an indication of the sustainable level of regular bonus.
- The bonus earning capacity can be calculated by equating the asset share to a realistic gross premium valuation;
- allowing for some target level of terminal bonus;
- using the regular bonus as the variable.
- Alternatively, a stochastic model could be used to project asset share and the build-up of bonus over time.
- This would allow for the company's policy on the relationship between regular and terminal bonuses;
- so that the company could set a regular bonus strategy that would be supportable in all but the most extreme scenarios.
- Asset shares can also be used to compare the bonus earning capacity of new business and in-force business in order to determine the need for a new bonus series and to set premium rates.

**Policy projections**
- Various documents may have to be issued by companies at point of sale or at other times in a policy's life that require projected maturity and surrender values based on asset shares.
- The starting point for these projections would be the current asset share.
- The projections would have to follow the described asset share methodology.

**Regulatory reporting**
- Another main use for asset shares is in establishing realistic solvency positions, on either an economic or regulatory basis.
- Since asset shares are used to determine payouts, they are therefore used to determine the value of best estimate liability (e.g. under Solvency II);
- including the cost of guarantees;
- and similarly in solvency capital requirement assessments.

**Inherited estate**
- Asset shares may be used to determine how inherited estate is distributed, if the company decides to make such an allocation.

<u><b>Q1(ii)</b></u>
**What are the uses of inherited estate within a with-profits fund?**
- The inherited estate will need to be used in a way that is consistent with what was described in the company's customer-facing literature.

**Capital**
- The estate can be use to meet the regulatory capital requirements of the with-profits fund.
- The estate provides capital to cover new business strain;.
- The company may wish to retain a strong capital base;
- to attract new policyholders.
- The company may want to build a strong fund to use in its marketing literature.
- A large estate may allow the company to sell business with high acquisition costs;
- or high initial guarantees.
- A strong capital position could improve the company's credit rating; 
- and so reduce its cost of borrowing.

**Investment strategy**
- A large estate will allow greater investment flexibility for the with-profits fund;
- allowing it to take greater risk in search of higher expected returns.
- For example, this might include investing more in equities and property.
- Higher investment returns would lead to higher bonuses and payouts for with-profits policyholders.

**Tax**
- The estate may be used to pay the tax incurred by the fund on distributions to shareholders.
- Some commentators have criticised the use of the inherited estate to pay shareholder tax.
- However, it is generally considered appropriate if the practice has been in place for many years.

**Expenses**
- The estate my be used to cover overruns on existing and new business expenses.
- So if actual expenses turn out to be higher than might be considered reasonable to charge directly to policyholders, the company might only charge some of the expenses to asset shares;
- and charge the balance to the estate.
- Some more modern contracts deduct explicit expense charges from asset shares (in a similar way as for unit-linked contracts).
- For these contracts, the excess of the expenses incurred and shareholder transfers over the contractual charges will be charged to the estate.

**Payouts**
- The estate is used to fund the cost of policy payouts in excess of their asset share.
- So an estate can help to support smoothing flexibility.
- The larger the estate, generally the greater the degree of smoothing that can be applied.
- The estate can also be used to meet the cost of guarantees when they bite, i.e. when the guaranteed payout is in excess of the asset share.
- In some cases, payouts that are in excess of asset shares are then charged back to with-profits policyholders rather than to the estate, e.g. the cost of benefits on death would be shared amongst all policies within the cohort.

<u><b>Q1(iii)</b></u>
**How would the company distribute surplus capital?**
- The overall distribution could be dome implicitly via addition to asset share;
- or explicitly though addition of bonuses.
- The surplus could be distributed in the via addition to asset share;
- regular bonus;
- terminal bonus;
- special bonus;
- refund of charges.

**Addition to asset share**
- The surplus could be distributed by enhancing each policyholder's asset share.
- This is probably the simplest way for the company to achieve this distribution.
- As the asset share is seen as the starting point for fair value, this approach can be seen as equitable.
- However, policyholders are unlikely to understand the approach and so will not fully appreciate that they have benefitted from the surplus.
- Policyholders would receive the higher terminal bonuses reflecting their higher asset shares.
- Surrender values would also be higher due to increased asset shares (if retrospective approach is used), or the increase in expected maturity payouts (if prospective approach is used).
- Equivalently, and addition could be made to the shadow fund for the accumulating with-profits policies.
- This addition could be made by increasing the unit price or the number of units (assuming the contract is unitised).
- All asset shares could be increased by a flat percentage.
- However, it would not be as simple as using a percentage increase found by dividing the desired distribution amount by the aggregate asset share;
- as the increase in asset share would alter the cost of guarantees.

**Regular bonus**
- The surplus could be distributed by declaring higher regular bonus over the remaining term of the existing business.
- However, once a regular bonus is declared, it is guaranteed;
- and so increases reserves and reduces flexibility under future conditions.
- Also, this method would not result in increased payouts if the asset share is greater than the guaranteed value (as any increase in regular bonus would be offset by reduction in terminal bonus).
- So any increase in regular bonus needs to be matched by a corresponding increase in asset shares too.
- It is possible an increase in asset share could lead to an increase in regular bonus;
- but this would only be likely if the increase in asset shares was significant.
- In conclusion, it is unlikely that regular bonus would be used to distribute the surplus. It is much more likely that asset shares will be enhanced so that either a special bonus or higher terminal bonus can be paid.

**Terminal bonus**
- The surplus could be distributed by paying a large terminal bonus.
- Distributing the surplus through terminal bonus rather than regular bonus gives greater flexibility.

**Special bonus**
- Alternatively the surplus could be distributed through a special bonus.
- This would be added in a similar way to a regular bonus.
- This would be easier to explain to policyholders than an addition to asset share;
- and easier for them to understand;
- and so should generate good publicity for the insurance company.
- The declaration of special bonus should not build an expectation of future such bonus as it should be clear that it is a one-off.
- The declaration of special bonus would lead to an immediate transfer to shareholders and this cost needs to be allowed for.
- Shareholders may prefer the special bonus approach as it leads to earlier shareholder transfers than a method involving higher terminal bonuses.
- Once added, a special bonus cannot be taken away.
- A cash bonus may not be permitted under regulation/
- If the same addition to asset share is applied to all policy types, then the resulting special bonus rate may differ by product type;
- depending on each policy type's run-off profile;
- and guarantee costs.
- It will still be necessary to enhance asset shares as described above;
- otherwise, the addition of the special bonus would result in reduced terminal bonus.
- Unlike the addition to asset share method using terminal bonus, this approach would increase the guaranteed benefits within the fund.
- Although this might be preferred by the policyholders;
- it increases the reserves and regulatory capital requirements for the fund;
- and so offsets to some extent the de-risking benefits which have generated the additional surplus in the first place.

**Refund of charges**
- The company could refund some of the charges that have been deducted from the asset share (e.g. for the cost of guarantees or cost of capital);
- as existing policyholders who have paid these charges have directly contributed to the estate.

**Which policyholders**
- The Board will need to decide who would be eligible for such a distribution.
- The key factors in this decision are likely the need to demonstrate all customers have been treated fairly;
- and to be equitable between different groups and generations of policyholders.
- Further, the Board needs to decide whether it would be reasonable to favour one group of policyholders over another;
- e.g. those who had suffered particularly low bonus rates due to low investment returns could be given a larger share of the surplus distributed.
- Similarly, those policies which have contributed most to the de-risking exercise could receive the greatest share of the surplus distributed (e.g. the de-risking may mean lower risk assets will be held in the future. so polices with the longest remaining term may be compensated by higher surplus distribution now).
- An alternative view would be that the additional surplus has occurred at a point in time;
- and so it could be argued that all current policyholders have an equal right to any distribution.
- The surplus should be distributed to the in-force policyholders who contributed most to the estate (perhaps through charges from their asset shares).
- Other groups that the Board may wish to reward are those policyholders who have invested over the longest periods or have policies of the greatest size.
- However, favouring those who have invested longer might look arbitrary and hence unfair as most of the estate will have been inherited from previous generations of policyholders.
- The company needs to consider carefully whether it would be fair to distribute less to policyholders simply because they chose a product with a strong guarantee.
- Similarly, would it be fair to give more to a bond policyholder who invested when markets were high and so has not achieved strong investment returns compared to one who invested at a market low (after all, such outcomes are in the nature of the contract).
- The company needs to ensure that there is fair treatment between the two main types of with-profits policyholder (conventional and accumulating);
- and may need to consider whether different treatment is appropriate in order to achieve this.

**Selection**
- The policyholders should be informed of the distribution of surplus after the date at which the distribution will be effective;
- in order to prevent policyholders exploiting the distribution.
- For example, single premium bond policyholders could temporarily switch out of other unit-linked funds and into the with-profits fund in order to quality for the bonus (and then switch back to unit-linked funds again).

**Lapses**
- The company should try to choose a distribution method that avoids a mass lapse immediately after the distribution is declared. 

**General considerations**
- The Board should consider any past communications to policyholders and their impact on what policyholders would expect from the surplus distribution.
- The views of the Chief Actuary;
- and the With-Profits Actuary should also be sought.
- The Chief Actuary (or equivalent) will have a view on what would be an appropriate amount to distribute;
- because of its impact on solvency.
- In addition to any With-Profits Actuary, there may be a With-Profits Committee in place;
- that would also help to inform the Board’s view on fairness. 
- The Board should also consider the manner in which any previous distributions of surplus capital have been made by the company;
- or by other companies in a similar position.

<u><b>Q1(iv)</b></u>
**What are the issues to consider when closing with-profits fund to new business?**
**Run-off plan**
- Firstly, the company needs to understand how the business will run off.
- However, as the volumes of new business have been low in recent years, the fund will have been largely in run-off already.
- The company may need to have a run-off plan in place, depending on local regulatory requirements.
- However, the company may already have an appropriate plan, particularly if it has an effective risk appetite framework in place. 
- It may be that there is no need to change the way in which the fund is managed;
- as the issues have already been considered;
- and appropriate actions taken (e.g. as part of the recent de-risking exercise).
- The run-off plan should consider how the balance between the different product types changing over time might influence changes in management actions.

**Investment strategy**
- The fund is strong (as it has had excess capital to distribute), so currently it has lots of investment freedom.
- So a large proportion of the fund can be invested in equities and property (in search of higher expected returns). 
- However, this strategy might need to change over time as the business runs off.
- As the business nears maturity, guarantees may become more significant;
- leading to a more constrained investment strategy;
- i.e. a higher proportion of fixed-interest bonds. 
- An alternative to using fixed-interest bonds to match the guarantee would be to hedge using derivatives (e.g. using put options).
- The impact of different investment approaches on different groups of policyholders should be considered.
- For example, adopting a low-risk investment strategy would reduce capital requirements;
- allowing the estate to be distributed faster.
- This would favour policyholders near to maturity (who would otherwise miss out on the distribution of capital tied up to retain a riskier investment strategy).
- However, a lower risk investment strategy would disadvantage policyholders furthest from maturity;
- as the lower expected investment return from bonds would lead to lower bonuses and lower payouts.
- As the fund contracts in size there would come a point when the fund could no longer invest directly in property.
- The fund will need to hold more liquid assets as it will no longer receive cash from the single premium bond business.

**Expenses**
- The expenses of administering the with-profits business will change during run-off and will need to be carefully managed. 
- Per policy costs are likely to increase (as overheads will be spread over fewer and fewer policies);
- particularly if the administration is performed in-house.
- Closure to new business will incur additional costs;
- e.g. redundancy costs for those involved in product development, sales and processing of applications.
- However, the company will continue to sell without-profits business, so staff may be redeployed elsewhere in the company and overheads can be spread over all the business.
- The company could consider outsourcing the administration of the with-profits business.
- The Board could limit the impact of increasing per policy costs on asset shares;
- by charging the increase in expenses to the estate.
- It may be considered reasonable for fixed costs directly attributable to with-profits business to be charged to the with-profits fund.
- However, the company should consider what action may be taken to prevent fixed costs becoming an increasing burden on policy asset shares;
- and hence on future payouts. 
- The company may continue to sell the single premium bond as a unit-linked product.
- So the accumulating with-profits bond policyholders would continue to benefit from being administered on a system with a stable policy count.
- However, the conventional with-profits policies are unlikely to be administered on the same system as other contracts and so will be unable to share their fixed costs with other business.
- It might be worth following a strategy (such as outsourcing) that increases per policy costs now;
- to reduce the impact of escalating per policy costs in the future.
- The inherent cross subsidy between product types would need to be considered.

**Tax**
- The tax position of the company could change.
- For example, in the UK the increased expenses relative to investment income could make the BLAGAB component excess E.

**Distribution of the estate** 
- The fund is strong, so there is a considerable estate to distribute to policyholders. 
- So a key decision for the Board is how to distribute the estate equitably over time.
- The estate is likely to be distributed at regular intervals as the business is run off;
- as the company will wish to avoid disproportionately large payouts to the last few policyholders (the tontine effect).
- If the estate is distributed gradually each year it will benefit policyholders that exit a long time after distributions start relative to those that exit soon after. 
- The company would have to decide whether it considers this to be fair.
- Distributions can only be made to the extent that they do not reduce benefit security to an unacceptable level.
- This would mean that some capital would have to be retained in the short term, so that policies exiting early on would not benefit from the estate to its full extent.
- A reattribution of the estate may be able to allow a faster distribution of the estate to policyholders.

**Bonus philosophy**
- Distributing the estate could reduce the company’s ability to smooth bonuses in the future. 
- The company may need to reduce regular bonus rates as the business runs off;
- as higher guarantees require more capital to be retained;
- which delays the distribution of the estate and so increases the tontine effect.
- Shifting the balance more to terminal bonus will improve flexibility for the company during the run-off phase.
- But the company will have to consider the expectations of policyholders in doing this;
- and the possible impact on withdrawal rates. 
- The company may also need to reduce the level of smoothing in order to allow capital to be released.
- Shifting the balance from regular bonus to terminal bonus will improve flexibility for the company during the run-off phase. 
- The company will have to consider the expectations of policyholders;
- and the possible impact on withdrawal rates, of any changes in bonus philosophy that it makes.
- The expectations of shareholders, who may prefer distributions from regular bonus, would also need to be considered. 

**Reserves / technical provisions** 
- The valuation assumptions may need to change, e.g. to reflect increased per policy expenses.
- Operational risks may increase in the short term.

**Policyholder communication** 
- The company should consider what messages need to be communicated to policyholders.
- The company may want to set up a customer retention team to avoid a mass lapse when policyholders hear the news.
- The company needs to communicate with brokers to maintain their confidence to ensure future without-profits sales. 
- The company also needs to communicate with the market to protect its share price.
- The company needs to decide the best way to communicate its decisions to the policyholders.
- Communications to policyholders would need to be in a more customer-friendly format than communications to brokers or the market.
- There may be existing literature (e.g. PPFM) that covers the actions the company would take if it closed to new business. 
- The closure of the fund will, almost certainly, require changes to such literature. 
- If changes to the Principles set out in the PPFM are required;
- then the company should give three months’ notice of the changes.
- Any significant changes to the management of the with-profits business would need to be communicated to policyholders so that they could assess the likely impact on their benefits.
- Closure to new business has, in the past, been associated with weak funds and so closure could alarm policyholders unnecessarily. 
- The company would wish to prevent a large number of withdrawals from the fund;
- as this would make the problem of rising per policy costs worse.
- Furthermore, policyholders may be tempted to cancel policies with valuable guarantees erroneously
- Communicating possible future distributions will need to be worded carefully. 
- The company would not wish to set unreasonably low expectations. 
- So policyholders leave thinking that it is not worth retaining their policy.
- Also it would not wish to encourage anti-selective behaviour by policyholders hoping to maximise their value from the distribution of the estate;
- e.g. through policy increments;
- or switching into the accumulating with-profits fund from other unit-linked funds.
- There will be an increased number of queries from worried policyholders to deal with.
- There may be specific regulations in place that have to be followed on formal closure. 
- For example, the company might have to provide certain information to the regulator. 
- It might also have to write to all policyholders in the fund giving prescribed information. 

**Focus on without-profits business**
- It might become harder to sell unit-linked business if there is no longer the option to switch into the accumulating with-profits fund.
- The company needs to ensure that it has sufficient capital in the without-profits fund to support its plans for higher levels of without-profits new business.

**Other points**
- The company should make sure that all of its actions are consistent with the principles of treating customers fairly.
- The Chief Actuary (or equivalent) and the With-Profits Actuary (if relevant) will have to follow professional guidance.
- Staff morale may fall, particularly in with-profits teams.
- There is a danger that service standards could fall as the portfolio runs down;
- which could lead to higher customer complaints;
- and higher withdrawals. 
- The company should consider the impact of closure on its embedded value;
- e.g. the impact of higher per policy expenses, different investment mix and the absence of with-profits new business in the future