<u><b>Q2(i)</b></u>
**What is the process for Co Y to transfer liabilities from Co X to Co Y?**
- The company needs to obtain court approval.
- The company needs a report on the scheme of transfer.
- This scheme has to be produced by an independent expert (IE) appointed by the firm.
- The independent expert has to be approved by the regulator.
- The IE report would primarily assess the impact of the transfer on the transferring Co X policyholders and existing Co Y policyholders.
- The IE report would primarily consider policyholder benefits and benefits expectations, the security of benefits, and wider TCF issues.
- Before it gives its sanction to the transfer, the Court needs to be satisfied that the companies concerned have adequately publicised the scheme and adequately communicated with all policyholders involved.
- The company would need to send a statement setting out the terms of the scheme.
- The company would need to send a summary of the IE's report that it is sufficient to indicate their opinion on the effect of the transfer on the interest of the policyholders involved.
- The Court must also be satisfied that the company to which the business is being transferred to (Co Y) is authorised to carry on that type of business;
- and after the transfer will be able to cover its regulatory capital requirements.
- Any person can be heard by the Court if they feel that the transfer would adversely affect them.

<u><b>Q2(ii)</b></u>
**What are the advantages and disadvantages for the transfer of liabilties?**
**Advantages**
- The transfer is worthwhile if the financial benefits outweigh the costs.
- These financial benefits can be related to tax, capital, and expenses.

**Advantages - Tax**
- The company may pay less tax on the combined fund than two separate funds.
- For example, losses on one company could be used to offset profits on the other;
- or excess expenses on one company's BLAGAB business could be used to offset excess income on the other company's BLAGAB business.

**Advantages - Capital**
- Once the long-term business of Co X is transferred to Co Y, the company will be able to close down Co X.
- This may allow the company to release capital (if capital requirements of the merged fund are lower than two separate funds).
- For example, the capital requirement under Solvency II may reduce due to increased diversification.

**Advantages - Expenses**
- There may be efficiency gains leading to lower future expenses once Co X is closed.
- For example, the company needs to only produce one set of regulatory reports;
- and the company structure is simplified.
- It may make it easier to reduce overheads such as property costs.
- The company would only need to produce one set of annual returns to the regulator and only one set of accounts.
- So in the long term, audit fees would be reduced.

**Disadvantages - Time**
- A transfer of liabilities between companies is time consuming to complete. 
- It can take months to prepare the necessary documentation required for court submission.
- There will be opportunity cost as this time could be used more profitably on other projects, e.g. product launch.
- Sufficient time needs to be provided to those affected by the scheme in order for them to raise their complaints.
- The regulator will need time to review the scheme documents in order to provide their approval. 
- It can be a distraction to senior management.

**Disadvantages - Cost**
- Undertaking a transfer of liabilities is costly.
- The company would need to set up a team to work on the transfer.
- The company would also need to pay for the work of the independent expert;
- and the legal costs of preparing for the Court hearing would be high.
- System changes would be needed, e.g. to calculate the solvency position of the combined fund.
- It is not guaranteed that the transfer would be approved by the Court on the first hearing;
- so there may be additional work required by the Court;
- incurring further costs;
- and adding to the time taken to complete the transfer.
- The team to work on the transfer could be sourced externally;
- particularly if the company does not have necessary expertise internally.
- Or if internal staff are used, the company may need to hire temporary staff to cover their usual work.
- In order to obtain the benefits from the transfer, additional costs will be incurred, e.g. in combining their reporting processes.
- New style literature will be required for Co X policyholders. 
- Audit fees may be higher in the first year after the transfer. 

**Disadvantages - Other**
- The transfer may generate ill-feeling from the policyholders.
- It may result in a worsening of the company's persistency.
- There may be damage to Co Y's brand.
- A sense of the level of dissatisfaction amongst policyholders can be obtained from the number of complaints the company receives following the communication of the scheme to them.
- Staff morale may be adversely affected, especially if redundancies are expected in the long-term.
- The need to update systems to integrate the two funds increases operational risk.
- Service standards may also fall.
- There may be tax disadvantages.

<u><b>Q2(iii)</b></u>
**What are the reasons for change in tax position?**
**Overall**
- Co Y is currently be in XSI position prior to the transfer, so I must exceed E on its BLAGAB business;
- and the I-E computation must have been higher than the minimum profits test.
- As Co Y would become XSE after the inclusion of Co X business, then Co X is likely to be XSE on a standalone basis;
- and these unrelieved expenses must be higher than the difference between I-E calculation and the minimum profits for Co Y.
- Co X may have more significant BLAGAB portfolio and hence would dominate the combined BLAGAB tax position.

**Increase in expenses**
- Co X might have high expenses that would now be included in the Co Y fund.
- Co X may have had high acquisition costs in previous years that are spread over future years.
- As Co X is recently established, it may still be carrying forward the initial costs in establishing the Company.
- Co X may not have been run efficiently;
- which could be the reason why it was sold.
- Co X may have had relatively high fixed expenses;
- as it has not had long to build up sufficient business to generate economies of scale.
- Co X sold protection business, which will be high in expenses.
- The protection business might have formed the majority of what was sold.
- There may be additional expenses arising from the transfer (i.e. extracting the synergies) partly allocated to the BLAGAB and hence increase Company Y's expenses in the short term.
- Co Y may expect to write significantly higher levels of new BLAGAB business which will incur high initial expenses.

**Reduction in income**
- As Co X is relatively new, it will have built up only a relatively small fund of assets and so will generate relatively little investment income.
- Similarly, Co X sold protection business which generates relatively little investment income.
- As the protection business was sold before 1 January 2013, it will all be included in the BLAGAB calculation.
- For the unit-linked business, there will be limited investment income from the non-unit reserve.
- Co X may have invested in low yielding assets.

**Increase in minimum profits**
- Co Y may wish to weaken the valuation basis going forward;
- leading to higher minimum profits (due to release of reserves) and therefore more likely to be XSE as the minimum profit test bites.
- If possible, it may weaken the valuation basis to free up capital to support the merger.

<u><b>Q2(iv)</b></u>
**How can Co Y avoid excess E tax position?**
- For Co Y to be in XSE after the transfer, there must be a level of unrelieved expenses.
- The level of these unrelieved expenses will dictate the extent the shift in tax position can be mitigated.
- If this level is too high then there is little the company can do.
- The company should consider its solvency position in deciding the future course of action to take. 

**Cancel or modify the transfer**
- One option would be to perform a partial transfer and not close down Co X.
- Co Y could consider whether a transfer of all business needs to be undertaken, and whether the it is the best option.
- Co Y could transfer just enough business so that it remains in an XSI position overall.
- Following a partial transfer, the excess unrelieved expenses would remain with Co X.
- Alternatively a two way transfer whereby part of the business in Co X is transferred to Co Y and vice versa.
- Again, Co Y could structure this to be more tax efficient.
- The disadvantage of both of these options is that the potential process efficiencies that Co Y could have made would not materialise as there are still two companies in existence.
- The structure of the group of companies may be more complicated, increasing on-going costs.

**Reduce the expenses E**
- Co Y could reduce new business sales to reduce burden of acquisition expenses.
- It could attempt to reduce its expenses by other means i.e. cost-cutting exercises.
- The company would more likely consider reducing new business that generates XSE.
- Expenses should reduce naturally once merger synergies are achieved.
- Outsourcing may also help reduce expenses.

**Increase the income I**
- Co Y could try to increase sales of products that produce high levels of investment income (compared to expenses);
- e.g. endowment assurances, whole life assurances or investment bonds.
- Selling single premium policies will generate investment income more quickly than regular premium policies.
- Overtime, the additional investment income would allow the excess E to be utilised.
- The company may review the assets backing the liabilities;
- and move into assets that generate more income.

**Reduce the minimum profits**
- The company could strengthen the valuation basis being used for either or both blocks of business.
- Strengthening the valuation basis would make sense if there were insufficient margins in the Co X valuation;
- or it was felt that it was unduly weakened. 
- But the company should avoid making arbitrary changes to the valuation basis.