<u><b>Q2(i)</b></u>
**What is the appropriateness of not including VIF element in EV under Solvency II?**
**Reasons why ignoring the VIF is appropriate**
- The Solvency II rules require BEL to be calculated on best estimate assumptions.
- Therefore, there are no margins in the mortality or expense assumptions to be release into profit.
- The investment return assumption used in the MCEV and the discount rate assumption used under Solvency II are both based on risk-free rates.
- This suggests that there would also be no profit arising on investment experience.
- It would be double counting to add the VIF to the embedded value;
- as the VIF has already been deducted from the liabilities by the use of best estimate assumptions.
- So it is appropriate that there is no present value of future profits;
- in respect of mortality and expenses.
- It is appropriate that there is no VIF in respect of investment return also (as MCEV and Solvency II both use a risk-free rate as described above).

**Reasons why ignoring the VIF is not appropriate**
- However, under Solvency II the company may be making use of either the matching adjustment;
- or volatility adjustment.
- Under the MCEV a 'liquidity premium' may be added to the risk-free rate.
- If the impact of the matching / volatility adjustment under Solvency II is the same as the liquidity premium under MCEV, then there will be no emergence of future profit (or losses).
- However, if the impact is not the same it would be appropriate to ignore VIF in the calculation.
- Any difference between the matching / volatility adjustment will lead to small profits (or losses) emerging overtime which should have been included in the EV calculation.
- Future profits can only be taken credit for up to any contract boundaries under Solvency II.
- So the company might wish to hold an element of VIF in relation to future profits arising beyond such boundaries, if they apply - although this will not be the case for the immediate annuities mentioned.
- The release of the risk margin could be considered an element of VIF (and this is already allowed for in the MCEV by including the risk margin less the cost of holding it).

<u><b>Q2(ii)</b></u>
**What is the items included in analysis of change in EV?**
- Embedded value at start of year.
- Opening adjustments, e.g. model changes.
- Return on net assets.
- Expected return on in-force business.
- Non-economic experience variances.
- Non-economic assumption variances.
- Economic experience variances.
- Economic assumption variances.
- New business contribution.
- Exceptional expenses.
- Tax variances.
- Capital injections.
- Capital distributed / dividends paid out.
- Unexplained.
- Embedded value at end of year.

<u><b>Q2(iii)</b></u>
**How to analyse change in MCEV due to differences between assumptions and experience?**
- One method that could be used to analyse experience variances would be the projection approach.
- Assets are allocated to the contracts equal to the value of the BEL at beginning of the year.
- The assets and BEL are projected forward to the end of the year;
- using the beginning of the year BEL assumptions as the expected experience over the year.
- The profit emerging during the year is the difference between year-end assets and BEL.
- For first step (i.e. all experience items taken their expected value) the profit emerging will be zero.
- Repeat the above projection of assets, liabilities and profit, changing one of the items of the experience from the expected value to the actual value;
- The difference in the profit (or surplus) arising under the runs give the contribution from that item of experience
- Repeat for each item of experience.
- The results depend on the order in which the items are considered.
- So, maintaining consistency year on year is important.
- It may not be possible to get an accurate figure using this approach for items such as mortality or lapses, as the modelled expected would apply an average rate to all policies whereas the actual may, for example, be concentrated around large policies or may be a different shape to the table used.
- In this case, the variance may be derived from analysing a file of data movements.

<u><b>Q2(iv)</b></u>
**What is the comparison of each item in the analysis of change in EV under Solvency I and II?**
**Return on net assets**
- The same basic approach would be used under Solvency II as for Solvency I.
- i.e. the actual investment return earned on the starting net assets (free surplus plus required capital).
- Possibly split between the expected return (i.e. the risk-free rate) and the excess of actual over expected.
- Although the approach to rolling up the net assets will not have changed, the amount of net assets will have changed due to the introduction of Solvency II (e.g. may now be determined as free surplus + RM + SCR).

**Expected return on in-force business**
- This will be zero under Solvency II as the company's approach makes no allowance for VIF.
- However there may be an “unwind of the discount rate” component in respect of the release of the RM and SCR (or equivalently on the “cost of capital” component in respect of the RM and SCR).

**Non-economic experience variances**
- The approach of changing each item in turn will be the same.
- But there will no longer be any need to determine the experience variance impact on the VIF.
- Experience variances will now emerge as the difference between the actual cashflows arising during the year and the expected cashflows based on the assumptions underlying the BEL rather than those based on the embedded value experience projection basis;
- although the BEL and MCEV projection bases may in practice be the same (as they are both best estimates).
- This item will now consider the impact of experience variances on the BEL rather than the Solvency I reserves.
- An experience variance item may also be required for any difference in the actual release of capital to that expected. 
-  Depending on the materiality of this item the company may include it in the above step, or it may determine it separately.
- This may also have been the case for the previous MCEV approach under Solvency I.

**Non-economic assumption changes**
- These will now emerge if the BEL assumptions have changed (as opposed to the assumptions for the reserves under Solvency II).
- As there is no VIF, there will no longer be separate operating assumption changes to consider for the EV experience (projection) basis.
- The approach taken to the analysis of changes in the BEL reserving assumptions will be similar to the previous analysis of changes in the reserving assumptions under Solvency I.
- Assumptions underlying the risk margin or capital requirement calculations might also change (e.g. correlation coefficients, calibration of risks), which could also impact the embedded value.
- The assumed 'cost of capital' factor might also change (i.e. the parameters used to determine the frictional cost of holding the RM and SCR), the impact of which would also need to be analysed.
- This may also have been the case for the previous MCEV, if such a parameter was used to determine the cost of holding any required capital.

**Economic experience variances**
- This will be similar to previously, although no longer needed for the VIF.
- Analysis is still needed of the difference between the change in assets backing the net assets over and above the assumed risk-free returns.
- The other main component will now be the impact of the assets moving differently to the movement in BEL.
- For the MCEV under Solvency I, the actual earned investment return would have been compared against the risk-free return plus any assumed liquidity adjustment;
- in respect of any high yielding bonds that are held to back the annuities.
- Under Solvency II. the actual return must now be analysed against the risk-free rate plus matching adjustment;
- or volatility adjustment.
- There may also be an impact on the cost of holding the risk margin and additional capital;
- e.g. if the underlying capital requirements change materially due to actual investment returns relative to those expected.
- In addition, there could be a contribution to investment return variance if the risk-free yield curve moves differently to the asset yields. 
- A similar effect may have also occurred under the previous MCEV approach, although the yield curves used may have been different.
- It may be necessary to include additional detail and commentary on the investment return variance;
- but this will depend on the extent to which these issues are already analysed under MCEV.

**Economic assumption changes**
- There is no longer a VIF on which to consider the effect of economic assumption changes.
- Analysis of changes in the risk-free rate on the remainder of the EV calculations would require a similar approach to now.
- Other considerations are as for the non-economic assumption changes.

**New business contribution**
- Under Solvency I this would have been calculated as the VIF less the new business strain arising at point of sale.
- Under Solvency II, it could be assessed by simply taking the difference between embedded value with and without the inclusion of model points that relate to new business written over the year.

**Other**
- Opening adjustments now apply to the Solvency II model rather than the Solvency I model.
- Other items such as exceptional expenses, tax, capital raised and capital distributed could be dealt with in a similar way under Solvency II as for Solvency I.

<u><b>Q2(v)</b></u>
**Should the format used for presenting the analysis be changed?**
- Some of the items are very similar, whether the analysis is performed under Solvency I or Solvency II
- However, many items and calculations are no longer relevant due to there being no VIF.
- The items and calculations have more similarities with an analysis of surplus, and the company may therefore find it more appropriate to consider a format closer to an analysis of surplus.
- However, it may be desirable to continue to use the current format so that analysts have information in a consistent form from year to year.
- The only item which is projected under the new Solvency II method is the cost of holding required capital.
- If the format continues unchanged, it may confuse the reader into thinking that the experience variances are impacts on VIF as opposed to effectively being an impact on net assets.
- The choice of format should enable users to compare the results from the two methodologies as easily as possible,
- It would be helpful to analysts if this company's format was similar to that of its competitors.
- It would be helpful if format was consistent with that used for regulatory reporting.

<u><b>Q2(vi)</b></u>
**What is the impact on the embedded value of the changes to pensions legislation?**
**Impact on the current and future embedded value**
- Demand for annuities from severely impaired lives is likely to reduce at retirement;
- if cash can instead be taken.
- New business volumes of standard annuities may also reduce;
- as more flexibility is available (e.g. there would be more flexibility regarding the timing and amount that can be withdrawn from a pension fund).
- The above two points would have no impact on the current embedded value;
- as that does not take into account of new business.
- However, the future embedded value will be lower if new business falls;
- as the profits expected from new business becomes part of the EV at the time the business is written.
- If future new business is expected to reduce then per policy expense assumptions may be increased;
- which will reduce the current and future embedded values.
- The investment strategy may become more constrained as the business runs off leading to a reduction in current and future embedded value.
- It is possible that the future mix of business will change;
- e.g. the company may introduce a new product (perhaps with-profits or unit-linked annuities). 
- The removal of the requirement to buy an annuity will not directly affect in-force business experience.
- Although future mix of business may change, it will take some while before the full impact on the target market will be known.
- The company may need to reconsider and change its strategy going forwards;
- e.g. it may close to new business or decide to reduce headcount;
- and this may involve significant 'one-off' costs.
- If taken into account in the embedded value, this would reduce the embedded value.
- If not yet incurred, the company may still make provision for the cost.

**Classification in the analysis of change**
- The impact of the reduced the new business levels will reduce the new business contribution (in the analysis of change);
- but would not be separately identified.
- Any increase in per policy expense assumptions will come through the analysis of change as a non-economic assumption change.
- Any constraints on investment strategy would impact the economic experience variances.
- Costs incurred due to changes in mix of business (such as product launches) may fall under exceptional expenses.
- It is unlikely that there will be a material impact from increased per policy expenses on the non-economic experience variances;
- although a small expense loss may occur due to lower numbers to cover expenses.

<u><b>Q2(vii)</b></u>
**What are the additional risks introduced by the new product?**
**Reputational / mis-selling risk**
- There is an increased risk of mis-selling with the product;
- particularly as this is a more complex product which may not be well understood by the customers.
- This could lead to bad publicity and reputational risk;
- which could result in lower levels of new business, across all products.
- There is a risk the fund runs out before the age of 85, leaving the policyholder potentially with no retirement income between then and the guaranteed benefits at age 85;
- which could lead to bad publicity.
- The risk is exacerbated by how policyholder behaviour may change in the future;
- e.g. there is a risk that more people withdraw larger lump sums from the investment component (as there is no limit on withdrawals under the new legislation).
- The company is exposed to reputational risk if investment performance is poor prior to age 85 (especially if the return turns out to be lower than would have been obtained from an annuity).
- It is not clear what tax rate the policyholder must pay on withdrawals before age 85, and the policyholder may blame the insurance company if the tax bill is larger than expected.
- There may be risk of regulatory fines if the company fails to treat its customers fairly, e.g. in relation to charges deducted.
- This new product provided greater security than the alternative of choosing an income drawdown product (if such products are available in the market),  as there is a guaranteed benefit from age 85. However, the company could be accused of mis-selling in cases where policyholders die shortly after taking out the policy (as they would lose the value of the insurance component premium).
- The new contract may not be the most suitable option for the policyholder's needs. For example, a policyholder in poor health may be able to obtain a higher income using the existing impaired life annuity  contract. Again this may lead to accusations of mis-selling.
- There is a risk of mis-selling complaints if the value of the benefits payable from age 85 becomes trivial over time;
- which could be the case if a fixed level is chosen;
- and inflation is high.
- If some of the unit funds are marketed as 'ethical' or in sustainable investments, there is a risk that the underlying assets are not perceived as meeting ESG standards.

**Regulatory risk**
- There is a risk of further changes to the regulatory / legal / taxation environment, which could impact the product adversely.
- For example, the government might re-impose limits to the amount that can be withdrawn, which would reduce the attractiveness of the product.
- Although the company believes that this new contract will attract beneficial tax treatment, there is a risk that any tax benefit the company builds into the contract are either not allowable;
- or become non-allowable following further changes introduced by the government in the future.
- There is the risk that the regulator will not allow the company to sell a contract of this type.
- There may be a risk that  the government imposes capped charges on the product.
- There is also a risk of the regulator changing the rules around how post-retirement contracts can be sold;
- and this could result in higher costs or an unknown distribution environment.

**Investment risk**
- There is a risk that lower than expected investment returns are achieved on the unit funds.
- This will reduce the level of charges received under the investment component of the product.
- In addition, the guaranteed insurance contracts has a very long duration;
- so there may not be relevant assets to back these liabilities;
- which introduces reinvestment risk.
- The probability of low investment returns is increased in the current low interest rate environment of the EU.
- Investment returns might be lower than expected if more policyholders choose the low risk (so lower return) fund option than expected.
- If investment returns are low, charges may not be enough to cover expenses;
- which will reduce profits.
- The risk is more severe if charges are fixed rather than reviewable.
- Low investment returns may also lead to increased withdrawals from the investment component.
- If the insurance component is linked to inflation then this increases the likelihood that suitable matching assets will be unavailable.

**Withdrawal risk**
- There is a risk that withdrawals from the fund are higher than expected;
- as this will reduce the future charges (and hence profits).
- Withdrawal risk is increased by the fact that there appears to be no limit on the amounts that can be withdrawn.
- Poor persistency may mean that initial expenses are not recouped;
- depending on the extent to which these are covered by the initial charge.
- Uncertainty over the amount and timing of withdrawals also introduces liquidity risk.

**New business risk**
- There is a risk of selling much less new business than expected.
- This could result in the development costs incurred in launching this product not being recouped.
- New business sales could be low if the media is critical of this type of contract.
- Sales could also be low because this contract is more complex to explain than the immediate annuities;
- and potential policyholders may perceive the charges to be too high.
- There is a risk of selling much more new business than expected. 
- This could result in capital strain.
- Selling more new business could lead to administration strain.
- New business sales could be high if there has been increased media coverage of pensions following the legislative change.
- There is a risk of a much lower average premium size than expected;
- so that the charges taken from the unit funds are therefore lower and do not adequately cover fixed expenses.

**Operational risk**
- The company has not sold unit-linked business until now, so lacks experience.
- Operational risks are therefore higher for this new product.
- The company does not have existing relevant experience, so may mis-price the product.
- Customers are likely to expect to be able to view their current fund value online, which would not currently be the case for the immediate annuities, so there is a risk of problems emerging with developing this new website.
- Systems will need to be changed or purchased giving rise to the potential for errors to be introduced.
- Unit pricing processes will need to be established. As this process is new it increases the possibility of unit pricing errors.
- Systems will be required to monitor withdrawals which may then go wrong.
- Administration staff will need to be hired and/or retrained. Inexperience may lead to poor levels of service.
- So, there is a significant risk that there will be a failure of people, processes or systems.

**Counterparty risk**
- Given the fact that the company until now has not sold unit-linked business, it may wish to outsource the some of the associated processes.
- This introduces counterparty risk.
- The processes that could be outsourced include: unit pricing, administration and management of the unit-linked funds.
- Additional counterparty risk may also arise through the use of financial advisers or reinsurers, if the company does not currently use them.

**Expense risk**
- The expenses relating to the ongoing administration of the new product could be underestimated.
- The cost of developing and implementing the new product could be significantly underestimated.
- The company underestimate the expenses relating to the investment management of the unit-linked funds.

**Anti-selection / mortality risk** 
- There is a risk that fewer than expected policyholders die before age 85 than was allowed for in the pricing of the insurance component.
- There is a risk that there is more selection by policyholders against the company than anticipated in the pricing.
- The company might mis-estimate the mortality of its policyholders if it attracts a different target market for the new contract or due to a lack of data.
- Anti-selection occurs if only policyholders in good health take out the policy;
- as this reduces the profitability of the insurance component.
- However it could be the case that impaired lives also want the security of this option, and the company may misprice the contract if it mis-estimates their expected mortality.
- The target market of those buying normal annuities may also change given the changes in the regulations and so there is also a risk that this product is mis-priced accordingly.

**Competition risk**
- If the product design proves to be successful, then competitors may be able to quickly launch a similar product (without the expense of having to develop and market something new).
- Competitor's products may be considered to be better, e.g. lower charges, higher guarantees, greater flexibility, additional features.
- The company might face significant competition as the pension landscape has changed significantly.
- The company may be at a disadvantage due to not having the relevant systems already in place (compared to a company that already sells some form of unit-linked product).
- Industry bodies are likely to analyse all new contracts coming onto the market and raise awareness of the different products, which would encourage customers to shop around thereby increasing competition and driving down charges.