<u><b>Q1(ii)</b></u>
**What are the key risks to unit-linked pensions and immediate annuities?**
- (Equity) market risk - unit-linked pensions and immediate annuities.
- Credit/counterparty risk - unit-linked pensions and immediate annuities.
- Persistency risk - unit-linked pensions only.
- Longevity risk - immediate annuities only.
- Expense risk - unit-linked pensions and immediate annuities.
- Operational risk - unit-linked pensions and immediate annuities.

<u><b>Q1(iii)</b></u>
**What are the correlations between the above risks?**
**Persistency and expense**
- Persistency is negatively correlated with expenses.
- As withdrawals reduce the number of polices so increases per policy expenses;
- as fixed overheads will be spread over fewer policies.
- If there are a very large number of transfers, then the expenses of administering each pension transfer might increase, e.g. overtime costs or hiring temporary staff.

**Operational and persistency**
- Severity of operational risk events is negatively correlated with persistency.
- Operational risk events result in negative publicity and so are likely to lead to increased number of policyholders transferring their funds to other providers.
- High levels of transfers could also cause operational disruptions e.g. if unable to cope with the processing.
- In addition, management may be distracted by operational problems leading to a lack of focus on the business, in turn leading to transfers.

**Longevity and credit**
- Longevity is positively correlated with credit default events.
- The reinsurers of the annuity business is more likely to default if longevity increases.
- The counterparty of a longevity swap is more likely to default if longevity increases.
- Companies which have issued debt may be more likely to default in situations where pension scheme costs of deficits have increased significantly due to longevity.

**Persistency and market**
- The number of withdrawals is positively correlated with poor stock market performance.
- Policyholders are more likely to transfer to other providers if the company's unit-linked funds perform poorly.
- If market values reduce then persistency may worsen as policyholders become nervous about maintaining their investment in volatile assets.
- However, pensions legislation may restrict full surrender.
- But paid up rates could increase at the same time as market performance is poor;
- e.g. the policyholder may lose their job during a recession and so be unable to afford the premiums.

**Credit and market**
- The number of defaults is positively correlated with poor stock market performance.
- If investment market performance is poor then we would expect companies to be experiencing financial difficulties;
- and so the risk of defaults would increase

**Expense and market**
- Expense levels are positively correlated with poor stock market performance.
- Lower market levels give lower funds on unit-linked pensions and so less assets to spread fixed investment expenses over. 

**Operational and expense**
- The severity of operational risk events is positively correlated with expense.
- Operational risk events could generate additional costs due to need to rectify the situation.

<u><b>Q1(iv)</b></u>
**What is the purpose of the deposit back arrangement?**
- If the reinsurer were to default on its obligations;
- then the insurer would still have enough to cover 101% of the reserves.

<u><b>Q1(v)</b></u>
**What are the possible difference for the in reserving calculations?**
**General**
- The deposit back is specified as 101% of the supervisory reserves and so 1% difference is expected.
- The unexplained difference could be due to an error in either the insurer or the reinsurer's model.

**Mortality**
- The insurer and the reinsurer may be using a different mortality basis.
- This may be because the reinsurer has more data on which to base its assumption.
- The insurer and the reinsurer may have a different view on base mortality;
- or on the rate of future improvements.
- The reinsurer may have a more sophisticated or granular approach to setting the mortality basis.
- For example, the reinsurer may use a stochastic model but the insurer may be using a deterministic model.

**Discount rate**
- They may be using a different discount rate. 
- This may be because they have a different estimate on the yield on the assets being deposited back.

**Expenses**
- They may be using a different expense assumption.
- This may be because the reinsurer can spread overheads over a greater volume of business.
- There may be differences in the efficiency of the insurer and the reinsurer.
- There may be using a different future expense inflation assumption.

**Margins**
- They may have different margins for prudence in their basis.
- This may be because they have different risk appetites.
- The reinsurer may have smaller margins for random fluctuations in experience as it has a larger portfolio of business.
- The reinsurer may have a more diversified portfolio of business and may have offsetting risks which would allow it to have a lower level of prudence than in the insurer's basis.
- They may have a different view on the volatility of future experience.

**Tax**
- There may be differences in the allowance of tax, e.g. if the reinsurer operates in a different jurisdiction.

**Data**
- They may be using different data in the two calculations;
- e.g. extracted as at a different date.
- The reinsurer may be using model points as opposed to calculating reserves on policy-by-policy basis.
- The reinsurer may be using a simplified approach;
- e.g. looking at annual cashflows rather than monthly cashflows.

<u><b>Q1(vi)</b></u>
**What approach may be used to calculate the deposit back calculation following Solvency II?**
**Balance sheet components**
- Technical provisions are likely to be the starting point for the deposit back.
- Technical provisions should represent the amount the company would have to pay in order to transfer its obligations immediately to another insurance company.
- So technical provisions could be a good proxy for the cost of a replacement reinsurance contract.
- Technical provisions consist of a best estimate liability (BEL) and a risk margin (RM).
- The BEL is likely to be considerably less than the prudent reserves used in the deposit back calculation;
- so the insurer would want a deposit back larger than the BEL.
- Therefore it is likely that the risk margin would also be included in the deposit back.
- However, the Solvency Capital Requirements (SCR) would not be included;
- because the existing deposit back arrangement does not include any capital requirements.
- Pillar 1 of Solvency II is the new basis on which the deposit back will need to be determined. 
- The risk margin represents the theoretical compensation for the risk of future experience being worse than best estimate assumptions.

**Issues relating to the calculation**
- Calculating the RM accurately and fully each month would be complicated;
- because the capital required at the end of each period must be projected during the run-off of the existing business.
- Calculating the RM each month would be time consuming. 
- The capital requirement included in the RM calculation is based on a subset of SCR which is complex to calculate;
- e.g. due to need to allow for the correlation between risks.
- The SCR calculation will be more difficult if the reinsurer uses an internal model rather than the standard formula. 
- An alternative is to calculate the risk margin element approximately.
- This would be simpler to calculate.
- For example, this could involve selecting a driver (e.g. BEL or sum at risk);
- which we assume has an approximately linear relationship with the required capital.
- Different drivers are needed for different risk factors;
- e.g. expenses may need to use policy count as a driver.
- We would then project that driver and calculate the required capital as a percentage of that driver.
- More sophisticated methods using a combination of drivers and correlations could be used to obtain greater accuracy. 
- But the insurer and reinsurer may not agree on what would be a suitable percentage to apply to each driver.
- The percentage could be based on the insurer's full risk margin calculation at outset; 
- but the reinsurer might not agree with the assumptions made by the insurer.
- It would be helpful if the approach used was stable over time.
- Other approximations might be used such as model points;
- or a simplified approach to correlation and aggregation.
- It is possible that the reinsurer may calculate the deposit back fully on quarterly basis and perform an approximate roll-forward for intermediate months;
- e.g. adjusted for policy movements;
- and any material changes to factors underlying assumptions, e.g. interest rates.
- The assumptions used to calculate the BEL would still need to be agreed.
- The assumptions used to calculate the BEL could be set by the reinsurer and subject to challenge.
- The insurer and reinsurer may have different views on whether a matching adjustment should be included;
- if matching adjustment is included in reinsurer's calculation, insurer would get less back from the reinsurer.
- All assumptions should be best estimate, with no prudential margins.
- Currently the deposit back is calculated as 101% of reserves for additional protection, so consideration should be given as to whether this 1% uplift is still a suitable loading for protection under Solvency II.

<u><b>Q1(vii)</b></u>
**What other changes may be required under Solvency II in respect of the reinsurance arrangement?**
- Recoveries expected from reinsurance are shown as an asset on Solvency II balance sheet;
- rather than as a reduction in gross liabilities (as may have been the case in the previous regime).
- Assets allowed in the deposit back may be different;
- e.g. due to the application of the prudent person principle under Solvency II.
- Assets are required to be valued at market value.
- This may also impact the determination of assets which are included in the deposit back, if some of those assets were not previously valued at market value.
- The insurer may be looking to use the matching adjustment to increase the risk-free discount rate in the calculations of the best estimate liability in its own technical provisions.
- Restrictions might be put on the assets in the deposit back in order to qualify for this adjustment.
- The insurer's SCR should fall as the reinsurance means that it is less exposed to longevity risk, although this is offset by the increase in counterparty default risk.
- The issues described above are likely to lead to change in treaty wording.