<u><b>Q1(i)</b></u>
**What are the general principles of embedded value?**
In general, EV principles are likely to include:
- a definition of how the embedded value (EV) should be calculated.
- a definition of what business is covered by the EV, and explicitly excluding future new business.
- a split of the EV between net assets and that which reflects the present value of shareholders’ interests.
- a further split of net assets into those assets that represent free surplus and those assets that support the required capital to cover solvency requirements.
- inclusion of a cost of holding the required capital.
- an allowance for the cost of any financial options and guarantees.
- the principles for setting and reviewing appropriate assumptions based on past, current and expected future experience.
- the principles for allowing for with-profits business, and the level of future bonuses.
- the principles for setting economic assumptions and ensuring internal consistency between assumptions.
- the disclosures required, both in terms of methodology and results.
- the principles surrounding how results for different business units are consolidated, and how these relate to the primary statements.

<u><b>Q1(ii)</b></u>
**What is the calculation of embedded value profit?**
- The embedded value is made up of two parts: the net assets (i.e. the excess of the assets over the reserves) and the present value of the in force business: EV = (A – V) + PVIF
- We are given that there is no free surplus at the start of the year, so: (A0 – V0) = 0 and so A0 = V0.
- Ignoring the new business for now, the assets at the end of the year are the assets at the start of the year, plus the premiums, less the claims, less the expenses, all accumulated at the actual rate of investment return.
- Premiums P, expenses E and annuity payments Ca occur at the start of each year, while death benefits Cd occur on average halfway through the year and surrender benefits Cs occur at the end of the year, so rolling up the initial assets and cashflows with investment return i we have: A1 = (A0 + P – E – Ca) × (1 + i) – Cd × (1 + i)1⁄2 – Cs
- We noted above that the assets were equal to the reserves at the start of the year, so A1 = (V0 + P – E – Ca) × (1 + i) – Cd × (1 + i)1⁄2 – Cs
- The investment return is different for the immediate annuities and the deferred annuities, so we will perform the calculation separately for each
- For the immediate annuities we have (working in thousands): A1 = (2,204,400 + 0 – 0.0025 × 2,204,400 – 125,670) × (1.04) – 0 × (1.04)1⁄2 – 0 = 2,156,147.76
- For the deferred annuities we have: A1 = (134,400 + 24,500 – 0.0025 × 134,400 – 0) × (1.055) – 1,345,000 × 0.01 × (1.055)1⁄2 – 3,200 = 150,270.10
- We can now substitute the above into our equation to calculate the EV profit (remembering to add in the impact of the new business) to give: EV profit = (A1 – V1) – (A0 – V0) + (PVIF1 – PVIF0) = (2,156,147.76 + 33,000 + 150,270.10 + 2,000 – 2,076,900 – 145,900) – (0) + (214,675 – 254,659) = 78,633.86
- So the embedded value profit over the year is €78,634,000. 

<u><b>Q1(iii)</b></u>
**What is the impact of longevity on embedded value?**
**Free surplus** 
- Assets reduce due to the payment of the reinsurance premium P. 
- Liabilities reduce by €1bn due to the transfer of the block of business to the reinsurer.
- The overall impact on the net assets (or free surplus) therefore depends on the relationship between P and €1bn.
- It is likely that P will be greater than the best estimate expected value of the liabilities reinsured;
- due to the profit margin required by the reinsurer.
- However, the liabilities transferred will have contained significant prudential margins under Solvency I.
- The prudential margins in the Solvency I reserves are likely to exceed the profit margins (or ‘fee’) required by the reinsurer.
- So P is likely to be lower than the reserves that were held. 
- Overall, net assets would therefore be expected to increase;
- by the excess of the prudential margins within the liabilities over the profit (i.e. ‘fee’) taken by the reinsurer.
- In addition to the profit margin, P will also be greater than the best estimate value of the liabilities reinsured due to the margin for the longevity risk that the reinsurer is taking on and to make a contribution to the reinsurer’s cost of capital.
- The reinsurance premium may be lower than €1bn because the reinsurer might be expecting to invest P in higher yielding assets than the insurer hence expecting greater profit on investment return.
- There may be other reasons, such as tax or solvency arbitrage, why P could be lower than if set on the insurer’s basis.
- If the reinsurance transaction includes a ‘deposit back’ arrangement then the company’s assets will increase by these deposit back assets;
- but the liabilities will also increase by the same amount;
- and so there will be no impact on net assets. 

**PVIF**
- Releasing the reinsured reserves reduces the value of PVIF for this business;
- due to there no longer being any release of the prudential margins.
- The discount rate and investment returns are the same;
- therefore there is no ‘frictional cost’ of having this capital locked in;
- so the reduction in PVIF offsets the increase in net assets resulting from no longer having to hold prudential margins for these liabilities.
- The overall impact is therefore a reduction in EEV equal to the ‘fee’ charged by the reinsurer. 
- There may be additional impacts if the risk discount rates are changed.
- Longevity risk has reduced;
- but counterparty risk has increased. 
- The reduction in longevity risk will be more significant than the increase in counterparty risk.
- Therefore, the risk discount rate may be reduced to reflect this fall in overall risk.
- This reduction in discount rate will increase the PVIF (and hence increase the EEV).
- There may be a second order impact on the mortality assumptions for the annuities not reinsured due to a smaller remaining book.
- An additional second order effect may be seen in the risk discount rate from a reduction in diversification benefit between the protection and annuity business.

<u><b>Q1(iv)</b></u>
**What are the reasons behind the EEV basis?**
**Embedded value principles**
- The assumptions will have been chosen to comply with the EEV Principles. 
- For example, assumptions should reflect past, current and expected future experience. 

**Withdrawals** 
- It is likely that the year-end basis for withdrawal rates is based on experience up to the half year;
- as the basis setting work will be done in advance of year end.
- The analysis of the experience from the second half of the year will probably not be completed in time to use. 

**Withdrawal rates – individual deferred annuities** 
- Half year experience was lower than the year end 2013 basis.
- This may be continuing a downward trend from the previous year.
- The company may have decided that there was evidence enough to reduce the long-term basis.
- However, due to only having experienced this reduction short term, they may not have wanted to take full credit for the lower experience;
- and so reduced the long-term basis to a value between the previous basis and most recent experience.
- If there were no indications that the lower withdrawal rates were a one-off, this would justify having a lower withdrawal assumption.
- The company would also have considered previous years’ withdrawal experience investigations.
- Alternatively, it may have been apparent (even without the formal experience analysis completed) that in the second half of the year withdrawal experience was higher than in the first half of the year;
- and so the company only partially reduced the rate.

**Withdrawal rates – group deferred annuities**
- Experience during the first half year was significantly worse than the year end 2013 basis yet the year end 2014 basis was unchanged.
- As the EEV basis should reflect expected long-term experience, any one-off short-term events that are not expected to be repeated could be removed from experience when setting the new assumptions.
- The higher than expected rate in the first half year may have been due to a very large scheme leaving, and this was not expected to be repeated.
- If this was the case, that scheme could have been excluded from the analysis.
- If observed experience in the second half of 2014 was nearer to expected levels, this would have given additional evidence supporting retention of the basis.
- Group deferred annuity withdrawal assumptions are likely to be due to a mix of: individual members leaving, (e.g. when they change jobs) and whole schemes leaving (e.g. scheme review prompts a move to another provider to gain a lower premium).
- Individual member withdrawal rates could be expected to be fairly consistent over time.
- However, scheme withdrawal rates could be expected to occur in peaks as a scheme leaving will happen less frequently and will result in a large number of members leaving. 

**Investment return – immediate annuities**
- The return at half year was in line with the year end 2013 basis rate, yet by year end 2014 there was reason to believe the return would now yield 1.5% more.
- It is likely that fixed-interest bonds are used to back (and closely match) the immediate annuities.
- Therefore, the investment return is likely to be set based on the yields on these fixed interest bonds.
- The assumption change may therefore simply have reflected an increase in bond yields over the year.
- In order for the EEV calculation to be consistent with the value of assets, it should be based on the yield as at the valuation date, i.e. the year end;
- so the half year yield is not of direct relevance. 
- However, the change is significant and is unlikely to be solely due to yield curve changes.
- The most likely scenario is that the investment strategy for the assets backing the annuities was changed in the second half of 2014.
- The assets held at the start of 2014 may have been government bonds, yielding risk-free rates.
- In the second half of 2014, the company may have proposed and had agreement to take more credit risk in its investments backing annuities;
- and so moved to investing more in corporate bonds.
- If this is the case, then the investment return assumption at year end 2014 would reflect the expected long-term return on these corporate bonds rather than government bonds.
- The assumption is likely to represent the average fixed-interest yield over the appropriate duration of the annuity liabilities, e.g. medium to long.
- The return on corporate bonds would be higher than the return on government bonds as the market rates are higher to reflect the default
- and illiquidity risks.
- However, the full differential between government bonds and corporate bond yields would not be reflected in the basis as a margin would be deducted;
- to allow for expected defaults.