<u><b>Q2(i)</b></u>
**What are the factors to consider in the design and development of the product?**
**Profitability** 
- The company will want to maximise profit;
- or at least meet the defined target level of profit. 
- The company will need to set an appropriate basis for the cashflow projections.
- The company has no current experience in group pensions so may need to get assistance or conduct market research. 
- The key assumptions will be lapses of individual members and withdrawals of whole schemes.
- Margins may need to be high due to the uncertainty relating to lack of experience. 
- The profitability target could be a combination of net present value, internal rate of return or payback period. 

**Assets / ESG considerations**
- The company will need to decide on the choice of unit funds to offer, e.g. whether to include any ethical / ‘green’ funds that meet environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards.
- The range of offered funds needs to be sufficient to be competitive but not overly wide to create administration issues.
- The company could end up with a lot of very small funds if no limit is imposed.
- The company will need to decide whether to allow unlimited switching between funds or whether to restrict this;
- and also whether to charge for switching. 

**Expenses** 
- It will also need to consider expenses;
- and unit fund growth rates.

**Marketability** 
- The company will need to assess the likely volume of new business sales for a particular design.
- In order to do this, it will need to assess other products on the market and what competitors offer.
- If charges are higher or less attractive than those levied by other companies then new business sales would be low;
- which could lead to non-recovery of development / fixed costs. 
- If charges are too low, there is a danger that new business volumes will be high;
- leading to potential issues with administration and/or financing.
- The company will need to consider the potential for the product in the context of any government initiatives, such as introducing a mandatory requirement for a minimum level of employer contributions.
- The company will need to consider whether charges are guaranteed or variable. 
- Guaranteed charges may be more attractive as they provide certainty.
- However, some employers may prefer charges that can be re-negotiated throughout the lifetime of the contract.
- After a few years in-force, the employer may review its pension scheme provision, so the company needs to ensure that the product remains competitive.
- It is likely that large employers would ask for a bespoke structure and so the product structure may need to be flexible;
- e.g. in terms of premiums being paid. 

**Suitability to meet customer needs** 
- The product should satisfy the identified customer need for the target market. In this case, both the needs of the employer;
- and the employees should be considered.
- The insurance company will want to ensure that the product is in line with any requirements to treat customers fairly. 
- It is likely that the company will need to ensure that the charges are fair, appropriate, fully disclosed and cannot be increased unfairly at the company’s discretion.
- Customers should not face undue barriers to exit;
- given that individual members are likely only to leave (or stop paying premiums) when they leave employment. 
- There should be an easy transfer out mechanism for employees.

**Distribution methods** 
- The insurance company will initially be targeting employers rather than individual members. 
- This may mean that a different distribution channel needs to be used than at present. 
- The company is likely to use financial advisers who operate on an independent advice basis;
- or specialist brokers;
- or consulting actuaries who will be acting on behalf of the employers.
- The company will want to ensure that the product can be put onto the panels of key financial advisers;
- which will require a lot of discussions about company financial strength, administration process, investment performance etc. 

**Financing / capital requirements** 
- The company will need to ensure that it has sufficient available capital to launch the product;
- including covering the development costs.
- It will need to consider the current and projected solvency position, to understand whether the projections for new business threaten solvency;
- and hence whether additional financing may be required.
- The company will want to design the product, limiting the initial business strain. 
- The company will therefore need to consider the matching of charges and expenses;
- in terms of both timings and amounts.
- The structure is likely to have a combination of fixed policy fees;
- and annual management charges expressed as a percentage of unit fund. 
- It is likely that initial set-up expenses will be high;
- and so the company may wish to include an initial charge.

**Extent of cross-subsidies**
- It will need to look at any cross subsidies – particularly around scheme size. 
- Charges are likely to be related to the number of members and/or fund size;
- and profit will be sensitive to the numbers of members joining;
- and to retention rates.

**Sensitivity of profit** 
- The company will need to conduct sensitivity analysis on the profit test to key assumptions.

**Level of risks** 
- There will be investment risk to the extent that charges are related to the size of unit funds. There will also be expense risk (under-estimation of administrative costs);
- including inflation risk which can be reduced if charges are linked to a suitable index.
- In addition, it will be necessary to consider how the risks of this product affect the overall risk profile of the company. 
- This will include any diversification benefits achieved with other products.
- The level of additional risk arising from the product design needs to be within the risk appetite of the company. 
- Counterparty risks may differ from those under the existing personal pensions due to a change in distribution channel (depending on current method). 

**Administration**
- The company will need to consider whether current administration systems can be adapted or whether a new system will need to be developed / purchased.
- Administration staff will need to be trained and potentially recruited.
- New product literature will be required.
- Group pensions are likely to involve more administration, as the insurance company needs to deal with both employer and employees.
- The staff and systems will need to be able to deal with contributions from two different sources.
- There will need to be efficient systems for providing values of unit holdings;
- and ability to change unit holdings and switch funds.
- The company will need to consider whether it will use existing unit funds or need to set up new ones.
- If it decides to use the same funds and annual management charges differ from those on existing products, then separate sets of prices may be required.
- The company may consider having a similar charging structure to be consistent with its existing personal pensions products;
- in order to reduce the burden from administration and system changes. 
- The systems currently used for the individual pensions may be able to be adapted;
- however, the group overlay may cause issues.
- Each employer may require bespoke literature, which will increase the complexity.
- If charges are bespoke for larger employers, then the administration system needs to be able to cope.
- There is likely to be a higher level of member movements than for individual personal pensions given that membership is linked to the employment of the individual.
- The company will need to develop illustration systems for individual members.
- For large schemes, it will be desirable to have a lot of the administration automated or linked straight to employers’ human resource (HR) systems.

**Taxation**
- Charging needs to fit in with the taxation regime, and any taxation rules need to be allowed for in the pricing of the products.

**Regulation**
- The company may want to consider allowing alternative benefit options at retirement, e.g. regular withdrawals (‘drawdown’), subject to complying with pensions legislation. 
- Or may wish to offer a deferred annuity to provide a longevity guarantee.
- The company will need to consider the potential for future regulatory changes in relation to retirement benefits.
- It will need to consider the impact of the introduction of the product on the regulatory solvency capital requirements that have to be held;
- and the implications of any proposed or expected regulatory changes in terms of solvency capital requirements and risk management governance, for example.

**Service standards**
- Given that the schemes will most likely be sold through financial advisers and brokers, service standards are critical.
- If service standards fall then the company could suffer reputational damage;
- and hence risk the whole scheme being transferred.
- It is therefore vital that staff are thoroughly trained on the new product and the systems are in place and tested well before launch. 

**Reputation**
- The company will need to consider the importance of investment performance – whilst not entirely in the direct control of the insurer, it will reflect on them.
- The reputation of the insurance company needs to be good before gaining access to financial adviser panels (if it isn’t good then, whilst the product might be competitive, the financial adviser is unlikely even to consider the company as a pension provider).
- Issues around company mergers or other financial uncertainty may mean that the company cannot get on panels or may get removed from them.

**Reinsurance** 
- The company may consider financial reinsurance to finance any new business strain.

<u><b>Q2(ii)</b></u>
**What are the risks the company is exposed to by outsourcing?**
**Administrative errors**
- There is risk the staff administering the business are not sufficiently skilled;
- particularly in understanding the products.
- Therefore more mistakes could be made resulting in fall in service standards;
- leading to unhappy customers and complaints.

**Conduct**
- There is a risk the customer service availability may not be as effective or extensive than at present.
- The risk is increased if customers have contact with the outsourcing staff only.
- Because interaction with customers is through the outsourcer, there is a risk of the outsourcer not treating customers fairly.
- There may be significant redundancies of current staff, or transfer of current staff to the outsourcer.
- This may lead to local and national reputational damage.

**Data**
- Data will need to be transferred from the company's IT systems to the outsourcer's IT systems, which will expose the company to the risk of errors or delays in transfer.
- This may increase costs and reduce service standards. 
- There is risk of the systems being incompatible with each other (e.g. Financial with Actuarial Valuation systems)
 
 **Poor standards of policy service - reducing new business**
 - There will be a delay in system developments on the current system, which may put future new business or product developments at risk.
- Poor service may lead to reduction in future new business and withdrawals;
- particularly for group pension products where administration services are critical.
- The lower levels of new business and increased withdrawals may lead to risk of not meeting overhead expenses.
- There is risk that management's focus is directed away from generating new business as they may be preoccupied in dealing with the outsourcing arrangements and any problems that may arise.
- As a result of negative reputational impact, there is further risk of increased withdrawals.

**Unit pricing**
- The company will be exposed to the risk of lack of controls in the outsourcer's unit pricing function.
- This could lead to significant risk of providing compensation for any unit pricing errors;
- and additional costs in rectifying client records.
- Any unit pricing error would increase risk of regulatory intervention.

 **Counterparty risk**
- There is a risk the outsourcer does not fulfil its contractual obligations in a timely manner.
- In the extreme, the outsourcer could default and walk away.
- There is the risk that if required, the company would not be able to bring back the administration in-house sufficiently quickly, leading to business disruption;
- or a risk that it would not be able to find another outsourcing company quickly enough and at an acceptable price.

**Legal risk**
- The outsourcing contract will introduce legal risk.
- The contract will be for a specific period and likely have a schedule of changes to be made.
- The company will be exposed to uncertainties that arise at the end of the contract; with the potential need for in-sourcing or alternative outsourcing.

<u><b>Q2(iii)</b></u>
**What are the controls to mitigate the risk?**
The level of mitigation required will depend on the risk appetite of the company. 

**Operational – administrative errors**
- In setting up the outsourcing agreement, the company could provide detailed process documentation for maintenance of policyholder records so that the outsourcing administrators can follow the same processes as currently.
- The company could provide significant training to the outsourcer during a transitional period;
- including potentially transferring some current staff to provide the training.
- The company could build in sample checking of basic administration tasks. 
- These samples may be more extensive initially whilst the arrangement beds in. 
- The company could outsource the basic tasks only, and leave more complex tasks initially in house, whilst the outsourcer staff increase skill levels. 

**Operational – conduct risk**
- The company could set appropriate performance standards for the outsourcer with payments and/or penalties dependent on reaching certain levels.
- It could build appropriate service standards into the agreement including call centre opening times. 
- The company could monitor key risk indicators such as number of complaints.
- It could manage redundancies and related communications by working with unions (where relevant).
- The company will need to continually monitor its performance against any treating customers fairly requirements.
- The company could require the outsourcer to provide appropriate management information to allow it to monitor compliance.
- The company may only transfer customer facing functions after the outsourcer has proved it can cope with basic administration.

**Operational risk – data risks** 
- The company could develop a detailed project plan. 
- This should cover transfer of data to new systems;
- the development of product structures;
- and the links to in-house systems (e.g. finance / actuarial, sales etc).
- The company could carry out thorough testing of the data and valuation, comparing them before and after the transfer.
- The data transfer is likely to be in tranches, and so it should start with the most recent tranche.
- Older cohorts could be migrated only when the first migrated cohorts have been thoroughly tested.

**Operational risk – poor standards of policy service – reducing new business** 
- Careful communication will be needed with key distributors;
- and, where necessary, with customers. 
- This should include details of how it affects them.
- There will be a need to ring-fence any resources involved in developing and selling new business;
- so that their focus is not diverted.
- The company would need to monitor persistency performance regularly via management information.
- It could conduct sensitivity analysis on persistency assumptions built into the outsourcing contract. 

**Operational risk - unit pricing**
- There will be a need for an in-house monitoring / checking of unit prices;
- so that any errors / issues can be recognised quickly.
- A detailed process for dealing with errors and compensation will need to be developed with the outsourcer which will also ensure that any issues are quickly identified and dealt with.

**Counterparty risk** 
- Significant due diligence on the outsourcing firm would need to be undertaken;
- including investigating financial strength, credit rating (if applicable);
- and current skill / staff levels.
- The company could consult any third parties already using the company as a way of checking the credit history of the outsourcing firm.
- The outsourcing firm’s track record for administering this type of contract should be considered. 
- Regular visits (insurance company management to outsourcer) should be arranged.
- The insurance company may ask its auditors to review the outsourcer.

**Legal risk** 
- The legal contract will need to be carefully worded.
- This should include appropriate break points and actions to be taken if appropriate standards are not met;
- including the compensation payments to be made.
- The contract should give clarity as to who is responsible for paying regulatory fines for poor service.