<u><b>Q2(i)</b></u>
**What are the objectives of Solvency II?**
The key objectives of Solvency II were to: 
- increase the level of harmonisation of solvency regulation for insurers across Europe, in terms of:
	- capital adequacy assessment;
	- risk management;
	- reporting
- protect policyholders;
- introduce a more risk-based capital adequacy assessment approach.

<u><b>Q2(ii)</b></u>
**What are the requirements of Solvency II Pillar 3?**
**Private supervisory reporting**
- The report disclosed privately to the supervisor is known as the Regular Supervisory Report (RSR), and includes:
	- the results from Solvency II Pillar 1 solvency calculations;
	- details of the ORSA from Solvency II Pillar 2;
	- other qualitative information, such as details on the risk management processes used by the company.
- Quantitative Reporting Templates (QRTs) are used to disclose quantitative information in a prescribed format.
- The RSR, including QRT, must be submitted annually;
- although under certain conditions a summary of the RSR is acceptable.
- A subset of the QRT (to support the MCR calculation) is required quarterly.

**Public supervisory reporting** 
- Except for certain items that can be demonstrated to be of a confidential nature;
- extracts from the QRT and some of the qualitative information from the RSR are also disclosed in a public Solvency and Financial Condition Report (SFCR);
- produced annually.
- Local regulators are permitted to impose additional reporting requirements on insurance companies in the form of National Specific Templates (NST).
- These address specific requirements of a particular country or local market which are not covered by the above reports.

<u><b>Q2(iii)</b></u>
**How to determine the Solvency II technical provisions?**
**Method**
- The technical provisions consist of a best estimate liability and a risk margin. 
- As the product is unit-linked, the unit and non-unit components may be unbundled for the purposes of determining the technical provisions. 

**BEL – Non-unit reserve calculation** 
- Future premiums can be taken into account up to the ‘contract boundary’;
- which is broadly defined as the point at which a company can unilaterally terminate the contract;
- refuse to accept a premium or change the premiums or benefits in such a way that they fully reflect the risks.
- For this contract, as the charges are fixed at outset, this is likely to be the selected retirement date of the policyholder. 
- The non-unit reserve can be negative. 
- No reserve is required for the expenses of closure. 

**BEL – Unit reserve calculation**
- The BEL for the unit reserves should be based on the unit price and the number of units the company needs to hold.
- This should be derived from the unit prices on the valuation date.
- The non-unit related liabilities are the present value of expected future cashflows.
- The cashflows are discounted using the Solvency II risk-free yield curve issued by EIOPA for the relevant currency. 
- The cashflows will include:
	- expenses;
	- less premiums not allocated to units;
	- less the fixed charges (ie of x % pa varying by fund).
- The unit fund will need to be projected in order to calculate the above future charges, which are expressed as a percentage of the fund value.
- Allowance for future expenses needs to consider both overheads and directly attributable expenses.
- The cashflow projections should ideally be performed on a policy-by-policy basis.
- However, approximations are permitted and grouped model points can be used provided certain conditions are met;
- including validation of accuracy.

**BEL – Guaranteed annuity option** 
- This may be calculated separately from the above.
- A stochastic approach is likely to be taken to calculate the part of the BEL required to cover the expected cost of the guaranteed annuity option;
- although a deterministic ‘closed form’ solution could be acceptable depending on the risks.
- Stochastic simulation would require a large number (many thousands) of projections to be run.
- The cost of the guarantee should be determined for each simulation as the projected unit fund at retirement multiplied by the higher of zero and the present value of an annuity;
- where the annuity rate is based on the difference between the guaranteed rate and the simulated market annuity rate.
- The BEL would be the average value over all of the simulated liabilities;
- discounted at the Solvency II risk-free yield curve.
- The cost of the guarantee will likely be carried out on a policy-by-policy basis.
- This will reduce the cross subsidies between those policies that are ‘in the money’ and those which are ‘out of the money’ at the option date.


**Assumptions** 
**BEL – Non-unit reserve calculation**
- Non-investment return assumptions should be best estimate with no prudential margins.
- Investment return assumptions should be risk-free.
- The non-unit reserve projections should allow for all expected decrements and policyholder actions, ie they should allow for full surrenders, partial withdrawals and death. 

**BEL – Guaranteed annuity option**
- The unit fund would be projected into the future using best estimate assumptions for possible decrements.
- The model needs to be market-consistent, so the model parameters should be calibrated to observed market values.
- For example, the market annuity rate should be taken from an observed open market annuity simulated using risk-free interest rates. 
- These expected interest rates / investment return rates should be stochastic variables;
- and should be consistent with the EIOPA Solvency II risk-free yield curve.
- The expense inflation assumption could be modelled stochastically and correlated to the interest rate / investment return assumption. 
- The model should allow for: 
	- appropriate probability distributions;
	- allowing for different volatilities;
	- and correlations.
- For both the non-unit reserve model and the cost of guarantee model, allowance needs to be made for the projection of best estimate longevity assumptions;
- allowing for future mortality improvements. 
- A best estimate assumption is required for the option take-up rate;
- and will only be required for those polices with the option.
- It is unlikely that all policyholders will take up the option (even if it is ‘in the money’) so this assumption should be set at less than 100%.

**Risk margin** 
- The risk margin is determined using a cost of capital approach;
- i.e. based on the cost of holding capital to support those risks that cannot be hedged.
- These include all insurance risk, reinsurance credit risk, operational risk and ‘residual market risk’.
- For this contract the non-hedgeable risks are likely to be:
	- persistency;
	- longevity risk in relation to the guaranteed annuity rate;
	- operational risk.
- First of all, the risk margin calculation requires a projection of the future capital that the company is required to hold at the end of each projection period (e.g. year) during the run-off of the existing business.
- The projected capital requirement is a subset of the SCR, consisting of those risks that cannot be hedged in financial markets.
- These projected capital amounts are then multiplied by a cost of capital rate.
- For Solvency II this is a fixed rate of 6% pa.
- The product of the cost of capital rate and the capital requirement at each future projection point is then discounted, using risk-free discount rates, to give the overall risk margin. 
- Since the projection of the SCR is potentially complex, various simplified approaches can be used.
- This could involve selecting a driver which has an approximately linear relationship with the required capital or its components. 
- For example, policy count for expense risk.
- The initial capital requirement can be expressed as a percentage of that driver and the projected capital is then approximated as the same percentage of the projected values of the driver.
- The risk margin can be reduced to take into account diversification with different lines of business;
- e.g. with the immediate annuity product. 

**Discount rate**
- As the liabilities within the unit-linked savings product are not predictable, i.e. customers can surrender at any time, it is unlikely that the company will be able to apply a matching adjustment.
- However, it may be possible to apply a volatility adjustment to the risk-free yield curve.
- This will require approval from the regulator.
- The volatility adjustment is based on the spreads on a representative portfolio of assets for each relevant currency.

<u><b>Q2(iv)</b></u>
**What are the impacts of legislation removing mandate to purchase immediate annuity?**
**General points**
- The change in the legislation offers more options for policyholders at retirement, other than taking an annuity.
- As a result, the annuity take-up rate would be expected to reduce significantly from the current level.
- In the short term, the experience of take-up may be quite volatile and as such it may take some time for the long-term impact to be determined.

**Market conditions**
- If market annuity rates are poor value for money;
- this would result in fewer policyholders taking an annuity. 

**Target market**
- If the company targets those with shorter life expectancies, i.e. those in relatively poor health, then these customers are more likely to take the cash.
- However, it could be argued that these types of policyholder should still buy annuities. 
- For a given lump sum, the annuity obtained is highest for the most severely impaired lives. 
- So it is this group of policyholders that have the most to gain if they live longer than expected – although they also have more to lose for each month or year that they live less than expected.
- Cash provides greater flexibility.
- Policyholders are more likely to take cash if it can be used to pay off remaining loans or mortgages;
- or purchase luxury items, such as cars or holidays.
- The lower the level of the fund, the more likely policyholders will take remaining amount as cash.  
- There may have been a lack of financial advice being taken before any take-up decision was made.
- Policyholders may therefore not have fully understood the options available to them.
- Policyholders may not have appreciated that the more cash taken now, the higher the risk they face of not being able to fund themselves in later life.

**Availability of alternatives** 
- The greater the availability of alternatives to an annuity product, e.g. income drawdown
- the less likely the policyholder will be to take an annuity and the more likely to take out the alternative.

**Regulation and government influence**
- e.g. availability of State provision in retirement. 
- If this is high, it is more likely that policyholders will take the cash;
- as they may feel the risk of living longer than their savings can provide for has already been met.

**Publicity**
- Any negative reputation of insurance companies will increase the likelihood that the policyholder will take the cash and invest elsewhere.

**Tax** 
- The level of tax and any tax allowances will have an impact on the take-up rate.
- For the tax-free lump sum, the legislation is unlikely to have a major impact.
- Policyholders may not appreciate that by taking the remaining fund value as cash, they may incur more tax than if they took the annuity;
- i.e. there may be a large tax bill for the policyholder in the year they retire as opposed to being taxed by a lower rate of income tax from the future annuity payments. 

<u><b>Q2(v)</b></u>
**What is the potential impact on the take-up rates?**
- The main factor which the impact will depend on is whether or not the guarantee is ‘in the money’ and, if it is, to what extent.
- If the GAO is not ‘in the money’ then the change in take-up rate would be similar to those policies without the option.
- If the guarantee is very heavily ‘in the money’, then the take-up rate is likely to be similar to that before the legislation change;
- i.e. it is likely that policyholders would exercise the option.
- If the guarantee is less heavily ‘in the money’, the impact on the take-up rate will depend on the policyholders’ awareness of the guarantee;
- and their understanding of its value.
- However, even if they do understand the value, policyholders may prefer cash even if it is the less valuable option. 
- The rate at which policyholders take the tax-free lump sum should remain fairly stable following the change.
- Policyholders’ personal circumstances will impact on the take-up rate.
- It may take some time for the take-up experience to stabilise and for the long-term impact to be determined.