<u><b>Q2(i)</b></u>
**What are the three lines of defence in risk management?**
- First line of defence is business operations,
- where a well established control environment is embedded in day-to-day operation.
- Second line of defence is oversight function, such as a standalone risk function.
- They have responsibility for production, implementation, and monitoring of risk management processes.
- Third line of defence is independent assurance providers, such as internal and external audit.
- They evaluate and challenge the company's risk management processes.

<u><b>Q2(ii)</b></u>
**What is liquidity risk?**
- Liquidity risk is the risk of mismatches in short-term cashflows.
- For this company, this is the risk of insufficient income from assets;
- or insufficient cash or short-term liquid assets;
- and also to meet short-term expenses (or other cash outflows).
- As a result, the company may have to sell assets at inopportune times.
- Forced sales of assets may result in the company making a loss.
- Liquidity risk also arises where the company cannot realise assets quickly enough;
- for example, in the disposal of property investments

<u><b>Q2(iii)</b></u>
**What is conduct risk?**
- This is the risk that the company’s behaviour will result in poor outcomes for customers.
- This may arise as a result of poor servicing, e.g. incorrect or missed application of benefit increases;
- or poor quality of communications. 
- It may also arise due to information asymmetries;
- e.g. in relation to underwriting, if impaired life annuities are sold.
- It may arise due to failing to keep pace with regulatory requirements; e.g. in relation to the information and advice given to customers when considering an annuity.
- Conduct risk may arise due to poor control of distribution;
- e.g. if the advisers are not making it sufficiently clear to customers that they could be better off with an impaired life annuity.
- It could also arise due to poor strategic decisions being made by the company;
- e.g. inappropriate product design.

<u><b>Q2(iv)</b></u>
**How to control credit risk?**
- There should be restrictions imposed on the level of exposure to each third party, i.e. the amount invested in each bond.
- There should be an adequate level of diversification, i.e. investment across a wide range of bonds.
- There should also be restrictions around the investment in bonds with certain credit ratings, e.g. only allow bonds rated BBB or higher. 
- The company should monitor its credit risk exposures regularly, including the counterparty exposure the likelihood of default;
- and the amount of potential recovery if a default were to occur the period for which the exposure continues.
- Credit derivatives, such as credit default swaps, could be used to match any risk of default from corporate bond issuers.
- The company should establish a good governance framework and ensure there is a clear separation of accountabilities amongst the appropriate functions.

<u><b>Q2(v)</b></u>
**What is the nature of longevity risks, including those associated with modelling future longevity?**
**The longevity exposure** 
- The longevity risk is that the annuitants live longer than was expected in the pricing assumptions.
- This would lead to lower profits arising than expected or even losses.
- If the annuitants live longer than is allowed for in the reserves or technical provisions, then this could put pressure on the company’s capital position or even solvency.
- However, the additional solvency capital requirements should protect against significant improvements in longevity.
- The longevity risk is more significant for this company as it sells only annuities;
- so there is less opportunity to diversify it away across products. 
- There is a related expense risk if annuitants live for longer than expected.
- There is an increased investment mismatch risk if longevity is different to the level that has been assumed.
- If annuitants live longer then there is also a greater risk in respect of availability of sufficiently long-term assets. 

**Model and parameter risk**
- The risk that the model chosen to represent future longevity, typically a probability distribution, may not be appropriate or may contain errors. 
- Types of model risk include:
	- models that have been incorrectly specified;
	- models that have been correctly specified but incorrectly built and are used unknowingly;
	- models that have been correctly built and specified but are inappropriately used for a specific purpose;
	- models that have an inappropriate level of complexity (over-simplified or over-complex);
	- misinterpretation of results when an appropriate model has been used, e.g. applied to the wrong population.
- Even where the ‘correct’ model was known and used, there is a risk that the parameters chosen do not adequately reflect the future experience of the annuitants.
- Collecting more data reduces both model and parameter risks.
- If the company has a large portfolio of annuity business and has been writing it for many years, then it should be able to reduce these risks.

**Random fluctuations / stochastic risk**
- Even if the ‘correct’ model and parameters were known and used, the outcome would be uncertain due to random fluctuations. 
- The larger the portfolio size, the lower the risk associated with random fluctuations.
- Uncertainty particularly exists around future mortality at very high ages due to there being limited data available at these ages.

**Risks in determining base mortality** 
- Risks arise in respect of actual experience relative to the base mortality table chosen.
- The company is likely to use a standard mortality table as its base table (such as the ‘00’ or ‘08’ series published by the CMI in the UK).
- There is a risk that the experience of the company’s annuitants differs from that underlying the standard table population.
- This might be because the company’s target market differs by:
	- socio-economic group, eg the company may write significantly higher amount annuities on average than the rest of the industry
	- location, e.g. the company may sell most of its business in particular regions.
- The company’s own mortality experience analysis may have contained errors;
- or may have been based on incorrect or insufficient data. 
- The company may not have allowed sufficiently for trends over time in the historic experience.

**Risk in modelling future mortality improvement**
- Risks arise from the assumed rates of future mortality improvements.
- These are particularly important for annuities given their long-term nature.
- There is a risk that the company has not allowed appropriately for the ‘cohort effect’ within mortality improvements, whereby the improvements exhibit strong patterns by year of birth.
- If the company extrapolates past experience to model mortality improvements, there is a risk of making poor judgements;
- for example, in choosing how long a period of past trends should be projected into the future, and for how long.
- If the company attempts to model changes in the processes causing death (e.g. changes in smoking habits, changes in cardiovascular disease mortality), these processes may not be sufficiently understood;
- or be capable of being mathematically modelled.
- The risk of getting the pricing basis incorrect is amplified for the company selling without-profits annuities, as it is unlikely that charges can be updated to reflect actual experience.
- The further mortality rates are projected into the future, the more uncertain they become;
- e.g. due to the difficulty in predicting medical advances.
- Further uncertainty is generated by future changes in diet (e.g. sugar consumption) and exercise, for example.
- There are complex interactions between a number of factors underlying future mortality improvements which make it difficult to estimate and model, e.g. smoking affects both lung cancer and heart disease.
- If impaired life business is sold, there is a risk that the underwriting process is inadequate and hence longevity is not appropriately assessed. There are also lower volumes of data, making it harder to predict future improvements for impaired lives.

<u><b>Q2(vi)</b></u>
**What is the impact of selling term assurance when already selling annuities?**
- By selling term assurance, the company would benefit from improvements in mortality rates;
- as these would reduce the number of deaths and therefore of term assurance benefit payments.
- This would therefore provide a hedge against the mortality improvements on the annuity business.
- However, it is unlikely to be a perfect hedge, as the two insured populations are likely to differ.
- For example, term assurance policyholders are typically of working age and the annuitants are typically in retirement.
- The geographical concentration of the populations may also differ. 
- The rate of mortality improvements may vary by these factors.
- Another reason why it is not a perfect hedge is because term assurance has a shorter duration than annuities.
- Depending upon the volume of annuities, it may also take a significant period of time to generate a sufficient volume of term business to provide a viable hedge.

<u><b>Q2(vii)</b></u>
**What are the issues of selling term assurance?**
- The company has no past experience of writing this business and so would need to gain advice, e.g. on setting premium levels.
- Writing term assurance business introduces significant anti-selection risk. 
- The company will therefore require advice in relation to underwriting.
- The company’s lack of past data makes pricing more difficult and may mean higher margins in the pricing and reserves are required.
- Higher margins would mean that premiums would be less competitive.
- Given how competitive this market tends to be;
- generating an appropriate volume of term assurance sales may prove difficult.
- The company’s existing distribution channels may not be the most appropriate to sell term assurance, e.g. they may target a more affluent market.
- There is a risk that the volumes of new business sold are insufficient to cover the fixed and development costs.
- The capital required to cover the development costs and support the new business technical provisions and capital requirements may not be available. 
- The administration systems will need to be changed in order to be able to deal with term assurance business, e.g. they may currently store and apply different rating factors than required.
- Staff will need to be retrained and new product literature will be required.
- An underwriting department may need to be set up.
- These changes will incur costs and take up time and resources.
- The company may need to gain authorisation in order to write the term assurance business. 
- It will need to make sure it abides by all the appropriate regulation;
- particularly any equality legislation that may be in force (gender neutral pricing).

<u><b>Q2(viii)</b></u>
**What are longevity swaps and reinsurance?**
**Longevity swap**
- The swap has two counterparties:
	- counterparty A (the insurance company);
	- counterparty B (a reinsurer or bank).
- Counterparty A pays a fixed series of payments to counterparty B. 
- These are agreed at the outset of the swap.
- In return, counterparty A receives a floating set of payments;
- that are linked to the actual annuity payments.
- Collateral is normally required as part of the agreement.
- Collateral takes into account the value of the swap at any given date, i.e. the present value of the floating leg less the present value of the fixed leg.
- The absolute value will be posted by one party to mitigate the risk of the other, with a positive value indicating that counterparty B must post collateral to mitigate the risk run by counterparty A;
- and a negative value indicating that counterparty A would post the collateral. 
- In order to calculate the value of the swap the counterparties need to agree the discount rate;
- which is typically based on a swap curve.
- Rather than being based on the actual annuity payments, the floating payments could be based on a generic population mortality index.
- In order to value the floating leg, both parties would need to agree a mechanism for determining the assumed life expectancy in advance.
- The collateral is calculated on a regular basis.

**Reinsurance**
- The insurance company pays a premium;
- and the reinsurer pays an agreed proportion of the annuity benefits payable.
- The reinsurance could be:
	- original terms, i.e. would be based on the insurance company’s premium rates;
	- risk premium, i.e. based on the reinsurer’s own premium rates.
- The reinsurance could be done on:
	- a quota share basis, where the same proportion is reinsured for each policy
	- an individual surplus basis, where the proportion reinsured depends on a fixed retention limit and so can vary by policy.
- The reinsurance is likely to be arranged via a treaty.
- The reinsurance could cover the in-force business, future new business or both. 
- The total annuity payments above a certain level could be reinsured;
- i.e. arranged as an aggregate excess of loss;
- or a stop loss style agreement.

<u><b>Q2(ix)</b></u>
**What are comparatives between longevity swaps and reinsurance?**
**Counterparty risk** 
- Both arrangements generate additional counterparty risk;
- i.e. the third party (the swap counterparty or the reinsurer) may default on the arrangement;
- or where they generally fail to meet their obligations in a timely manner.
- In both cases, this may be due to the third party finding themselves in financial difficulties or becoming insolvent.
- For the longevity swap, default is most likely to occur when the floating payments are expected to be higher than the fixed payments.
- This is likely to be small in both cases if the third party has a high credit rating.
- For traditional reinsurance there may be a clause in the treaty which allows the insurance company to recapture the exposure if a certain event occurs, i.e. if the reinsurer suffers a downgrade in credit rating.
- The longevity swap may be traded through an exchange, which will help manage counterparty risk.
- For both approaches, collateral can be used to mitigate the risk.
- For the reinsurance, a deposit back agreement could be undertaken where the reinsurer deposits assets with the insurance company.

**Basis risk**
- For the longevity swap, basis risk is introduced if the floating payments are not based on actual annuity payment but on a mortality index.
- Basis risk does not arise with reinsurance as the payments from the reinsurer depend on the actual annuity experience.

**Legal risk**
- Longevity swaps may be structured as reinsurance or as a derivative with standardised legal wording.
- If the swap is structured as reinsurance, then for both approaches, the contracts can be complicated;
- and so legal risk arises in relation to their interpretation. 

**Operational risk**
- In both cases there are a number of additional administrative operations that need to be undertaken.
- Therefore, both approaches generate additional operational risk. 
- In both cases this can arise due to inadequate data and systems involved in the arrangement, e.g. errors in the transfer of policy data. 
- If the third party is a reinsurer, it is more likely that technical assistance will be provided;
- which may reduce the potential for operational risk.

**Expense risk**
- In both cases, the expenses incurred in setting up and managing the agreement may be higher than expected. 

**Liquidity risk** 
- This can arise with the longevity swap due to the required posting of collateral.