<u><b>Q1(i)</b></u>
**What is the difference between economic capital and regulatory capital?**
**Economic assessment**
- Economic capital is a company's own assessment of its capital requirements;
- based on its own profile and risk appetite.
- It will take account the needs of ongoing battery strategy;
- including planned new business.

**Regulatory asessment**
- Regulatory capital requirements are prescribed by the regulators.
- For example, the required capital must be at least the size of 99.5% VaR.

**Similarities**
- Both assessments are used to determine the capital required to meet obligations in extreme circumstances.
- Both are normally defined as the capital required in excess of liabilities held.
- In many jurisdictions, the regulatory capital requirements have become increasingly similar to economic capital requirements, e.g. Solvency II Pillar 2 (ORSA).

**Differences**
- Regulatory capital assessment may not include planned new business.
- Economic capital is not mandatory, while regulatory capital is.
- Economic capital is not disclosed, while regulatory capital may be.
- A regulatory capital assessment is mandatory.
- A regulatory capital assessment is normally published.
- Economic capital requirements may be higher than regulatory capital requirements in order to fund a strategic plan;
- or to achieve a higher credit rating.
- The company may use a higher confidence level in its economic capital assessment than the regulatory capital assessment;
- e.g. 1-in-500-year event rather than a 1-in-200-year event.
- However the two assessments may be increasingly similar as the regulator may require the insurer to assess its regulatory capital in accordance with its own risk profile and appetite;
- and/or require regulatory capital to be sufficient to meet a company's intended new business plans.
- However, economic capital may be less than regulatory capital;
- due to less restrictive rules, such as being able to recognise profits beyond contract boundaries.

<u><b>Q1(ii)</b></u>
**What can company do to increase available economic capital % to fall within the preferred range?**
- The available capital percentage can be improved through either increasing the available capital or reducing the economic capital required, or both.

**Capital raising methods**
- The company could raise equity capital from shareholders by issuing new shares.
- The company could raise equity capital via securitisation.
- The company could reduce dividend payments.
- It could use financial reinsurance techniques;
- or subordinated loan stock.
- It could reduce the with-profits payouts to build up the available capital. 
- It could increase capital by writing more capital-generating new business.
- It could write without-profits business within the with-profits fund.
- It could reduce the level of new with-profits business written in the fund.

**Reducing risk in with-profits fund**
- The company could look to reduce the risk in the fund.
- For example, it could remove the no MVR guarantee for new with-profits business.
- It could reduce the cost of guarantee by lowering the regular bonus rate.
- It could change its investment strategy;
- i.e. reduce the proportion of equities held.
- It could consider traditional reinsurance to reduce risk.

**Investment strategy**
- It could adopt different investment strategies for the different segments of the fund;
- for example, different strategies could be adopted for the asset shares and the estate;
- or a different strategy could be adopted for groups of policies of different outstanding term.
- The guarantees could be hedged, e.g. using derivative.

<u><b>Q1(iii)</b></u>
**What is the effectiveness and suitability of actions and acceptability to stakeholders?**
**General** 
- Any action that increasaes capital will be acceptable to policyholders;
- and sales channels / intermediaries;
- and regulators;
- subject to any need to treat customers fairly.
- The extent to which many of these actions are possible will depend on what the company has said in any communication to policyholders.
- The company should seek the advice of the With-Profits Actuary and the Chief Actuary.
- The WPA and WPC will consider the additional improvement in policyholder benefit security against any reduction in expected benefit payout.
- They will also consider the acceptability of any changes within the context of communications made to policyholders.

**Capital raising methods**
- If this shareholder capital were to be put in the with-profits fund, the shareholder interest in it would be diluted through the 90:10 process;
- so this is unlikely to be acceptable to shareholders.
- Raising capital via financial reinsurance, securitization, and subordinated loan stock may be difficult for the with-profits business.
- Plus they would not directly impact available capital on a realistic economic basis;
- and would only reduce the required economic capital if company can default on the loan or interest repayments under adverse scenarios, i.e. under 1-in-200 year equity fall scenario.
- Overall these capital raising methods would unlikely to be an acceptable option.

**With-profits payouts**
- Reducing asset shares (e.g. introducing charges) would reduces discretionary with-profits benefits and so would reduce liabilities and increase the available capital.
- However, the charges may not be permitted for existing policyholders.
- This will depend on what has been communicated in the PPFM.
- Alternatively, the company could target final payouts to below the asset share, the speed at which the available capital would increase would depend on the exit profile of the business.
- Paying consistently less than the asset share may not be consistent with TCF;
- and may not be possible, or only be possible via a gradual change.
- If the percentage target are reduced only for surrenders, this may not be deemed to meet the principles of treating surrendering and continuing policyholders equitably.
- Therefore, this approach may not be acceptable to policyholders;
- and regulators.

**New without profits business**
- Provided it was written to be profitable, the present value of future profits from this business would directly increase the asset share and hence available capital. However, the increase would be offset by the need to hold capital requirements in respect of this business.
- However, significant volumes of without-profits business takes time to be material;
- especially if the company doesn’t have reputation for writing such business.
- Any new product launch would incur development costs, which would reduce capital in the short-term.
- It is likely the company writes without profits business solely for the benefit of shareholders.
- As such, writing such business in the with-profits fund is unlikely to be acceptable to shareholders.
- It would be likely to be acceptable to policyholders if they are expected to benefit from payouts.
- The regulators would need to be convinced that the with-profits fund wasn't taking on too much risk (as investing in a new product launch is very different from investing in equities).

**New with-profits business**
- Reducing targeted new business sales volumes would have no immediate impact on available capital.
- The impact over time would depend on whether new business is expected to increase the value of the estate, or whether it is expected to reduce the estate;
- and on the additional economic risk capital required to be held to support the new business.
- Reducing sales targets is unlikely to be acceptable to shareholders as they would lose out on the share of the profits from this lost business.
- The regulator is unlikely to support the writing of new business of new with-profits business that is expected to reduce the value of the estate.
- So new with-profits business would have to be neutral or expected to increase the estate.
- However, increasing new business volumes may be difficult as it may be difficult to sell with-profits business in some jurisdictions.

**Reducing guarantees**
- Reducing the regular bonus would be effective as it reduces the liabilities;
- so increases available capital..
- It would also reduce required economic capital.
- Similarly removing the no-MVR guarantee would reduce both liabilities and capital requirements.
- However, the acceptability would depend on the extent to which such a reduction is consistent with policyholders’ reasonable expectations.
- It may result in unhappy policyholders;
- and lower with-profits new business volumes.
- This would then be unpopular with shareholders as they would lose out on future profit participation.
- The effect of reducing guarantees will depend on the extent to which the guarantees are expected to be in the money.
- Reducing the regular bonus would defer the profit distribution and so may be unpopular with shareholders.

**Investment strategy**
- Reducing the equity proportion would reduce the liabilities;
- as the lower volatility of investment returns;
- would reduce the cost of guarantees.
- So this would be effective at raising available capital.
- It would also reduce the required economic capital.
- However, the current investment strategy has been set in line with PRE;
- and so changing it could be considered unfair.
- Reducing the equity backing ratio could reduce average future returns and hence future bonuses;
- which is unlikely to be acceptable to policyholders;
- or shareholders.
- As a result, this approach is not likely to be acceptable.
- If the company could invest to hedge the guarantee, e.g. by purchasing derivatives whose value rises when asset shares fall, this is likely to improve the available capital.
- Purchasing derivatives would not change the available capital on a realistic basis, as the cost of purchasing the derivative would broadly offset the market value that can be allowed for.
- However, it would reduce the economic capital required and so improve the ratio.
- As the investment strategy for asset shares is unaltered under this approach, it would be acceptable from a policyholder perspective.
- It will improve the ratio of available to required capital in the fund and so will be acceptable to shareholders;
- and regulators

Traditional reinsurance
- Traditional reinsurance is unlikely to be effective since it may be difficult to implement for with-profits business;
- and risks that are typically reinsured (i.e. mortality) are unlikely to be material for with-profits business.

<u><b>Q1(iv)</b></u>
**What are thee views of the two regulators if available capital is above the preferred range?**
- The regulator responsible for market conduct (FCA) will not wish the available capital to be too excessive;
- as this may be unfair to policyholders as it may imply that payouts are lower that they could or should be.
- The regulator responsible for prudential supervision (PRA) will not wish any reduction in available capital to be too much;
- as this could jeopardise future solvency;
- and therefore the ongoing security for policyholders.
- The regulators have opposing objectives;
- but if the views of the two regulators conflict, PRA’s viewpoint is likely to be dominant.

<u><b>Q1(v)</b></u>
**How to reduce available capital**
**With-profits payouts**
- If payouts target less than 100% of asset share, then it should be increased back to 100%.
- Similarly, if charges had been made to asset shares for use of capital or for guarantees, then these could be reduced, stopped, or refunded.

**Increasing guarantees**
-  If regular bonus rates were reduced to below the self-supporting level, then these could return to that level.
- The company could increase the level of smoothing.
- It could extend or increase the level of guarantees offered.

**New business**
- If new business has been constrained as the strain was hindering capital growth, then new business levels could be increased.
- It could use the estate, rather than asset shares, to cover expense overruns or overheads.
- It could consider investing in new product development.

**Investment strategy**
- If the investment strategy of the asset shares has been constrained to be less risky than preferred, then this could be returned to the preferred level.

**Management of extra  surplus**
- If there is genuine “excess surplus”, then the company should consider whether to make a distribution from the estate;
- e.g. targeting payments greater than 100% of asset share;
- or declaring a special bonus.
- The company may decide to carry out a reattribution exercise.

<u><b>Q1(vi)</b></u>
**How to use an ESG?**
- ESGs will be used as part of the company’s asset-liability modelling.
- ESGs produce numerous simulations of possible future economic outcomes;
- which are then used as inputs to the stochastic projection model.
- ESGs output a coherent set of macroeconomic variables necessary to perform the projections.
- The ESG outputs would include investment returns, interest rates and inflation.
- Correlations between variables will be allowed for the joint behaviour of economic variables to be modelled.
- A suitably large number of scenarios will need to be run, e.g. 10,000.
- The time horizon will need to be appropriate for the portfolio of pension business in question; e.g. a very long time horizon until all business has been run-off.
- The financial projections will produce the amount of capital required for each simulation;
- i.e. the amount of assets (in excess of liabilities) that has to be held at outset in order at meet any projected shortfall of the initial backing assets.
- The input parameters will need to be calibrated for this purpose;
- particularly in relation to the volatilities of the economic variables.
- The most likely calibration for this purpose would be a “real world” calibration;
- as these calibrations focus on realistic long-term expectations and observable 'real world' probabilities and outcomes.
- As 'real world' calibration is being used, a distribution of these capital requirements can be determiined;
- and hence the appropriate level of capital can be determined to reflect the company's risk appetite, e.g. 99.5% VaR.
- Both asset and liability projections will depend on the specific economic scenario and will need to be consistent with each other.
- When projecting assets and liabilities, allowance should be made for dynamic management actions.
- A commercially available ESG may be purchased and used.
- A proxy model may be developed;
- which is calibrated to reproduce the ESG simulated outcomes.

<u><b>Q1(vi)</b></u>
**What are the main risks from unit-linked pensions and non-economic stress tests required?**
- The company’s main risk exposure is that the fund charges raised from the policies are insufficient to meet the costs of running the company.
- These costs could be for initial expenses, ongoing expenses, or both. 
- So, the main non-economic stresses would be in relation to withdrawal (transfer out) rates;
- paid-up rates;
- mortality;
- expenses.
- The stress direction would be higher rates for all the above.
- Other possible stress tests include a pandemic stress test; 
- and a downward stress on new business volumes.