<u><b>Q1(i)</b></u>
**What is a proxy model?**
**Purpose**
- A proxy model is designed to be a simplification of the heavy 'full' model.
- It is designed to reproduce the results from that full model;
- but in a much shorter period of time.
- The proxy model needs to reproduce the full model results within an acceptable degree of approximation.

**Situations where most likely used**
- A proxy model may be used for solvency projections;
- which are complicated by the need for nested stochastic simulations.
- A proxy model may be used when there are tight deadlines required for the production of results;
- for example, under Solvency II reporting;
- such as the risk margin calculation.
- A proxy model may be used for internal economic capital projections.
- It may be used when there is insufficient computational power to run the full model as many times as needed, for all of the required scenarios.
- It may be used for any purpose for which full accuracy is not required;
- e.g. for high level decision-making or analysis.

<u><b>Q1(ii)</b></u>
**What are types of proxy model approach?**
- Polynomial-fitting.
- Curve-fitting.
- Kriging.
- Replicating portfolio.
- Statistical methods.
- Closed form solutions (e.g. Black-Scholes formula).

<u><b>Q1(iii)</b></u>
**What are the main risks that would be modelled?**
**Insurance risk**
- Longevity is the main risk for the immediate annuities;
- i.e. the risk of policyholders living longer than expected.
- Mortality is the main risk for the term assurances;
- i.e. the risk of mortality being higher than expected.
- The risk of expenses being higher than expected should be modelled.
- For the term assurance business, persistency (or lapse risk) should be modelled.
- For the immediate annuity business, there is a risk of mis-estimating both the base mortality assumptions;
- and the rate of future mortality improvements.
- Significant longevity improvement risk scenarios could be modelled, e.g. a cure for cancer.
- For the term assurance business, there is a risk of there being higher rates of anti-selection than expected.
- Catastrophe risk events could be modelled, e.g. a pandemic.
- Mortality risk would be reduced if there is reinsurance in place.
- Adverse persistency risk for term assurances is likely to be higher lapses than expected early on in the policy duration, when expenses have not yet been recovered;
- and lower lapses than expected at later durations when profit is made on lapse.
- A related risk is higher than expected selective lapsing of term assurance policies;
- resulting in those remaining having higher than expected mortality.

**Market risk**
- Market risk should be modelled;
- and in particular for this company, the impact of changes in interest rates or bond yields.
- However, the extent of market risk for the annuities will depend on how well matched by the duration the assets are to the liabilities.
- Market risk for the term assurance business is unlikely to be significant.
- Market risk is the risk that as a result of market movements, the company is exposed to fluctuations in the income from, or value of, its assets or the amount of its liabilities.
- There is reinvestment risk if the company has not been able to invest in bonds of sufficiently long outstanding duration to match that of the annuity liabilities.
- Even if the immediate annuity business is well matched, it is unlikely that the matching will be perfect and hence some interest rate risk will remain.
- Market risk is relatively insignificant for term assurance business;
- due to this type of business having small reserves.
- There is a risk of higher inflation than expected, i.e. expense inflation and annuity benefit payment inflation (to the extent of any mismatching).
- There may be currency risk, e.g. if the liabilities are written in the domestic currency but some of the bonds are overseas investments denominated in other currencies.

**Credit risk**
- Credit risk should be modelled;
- and in particular the risk of corporate bond defaults;
- and widening of credit spreads.
- Credit (or counterparty) risk can be described as the exposure to a counterparty failing to perform its contractual obligations, including failure to perform them in a timely manner.
- The extent to which there is corporate bond default risk depends on the proportion of investments in corporates rather than government bonds;
- and the credit ratings of the bonds held.
- Credit spread widening may result from credit rating downgrades.
- The degree of credit risk will also depend on the expected loss in the event of default (taking into account how much may be recovered). 
- There may also be counterparty risk exposure in relation to any reinsurance used;
- and any outsourcing arrangements that the company has in place. 

**Liquidity risk**
- Liquidity risk may be modelled;
- particularly in relation to the payment of unexpected large claims on term assurance business.
-  Liquidity risk is the risk arising from short-term cashflow mismatches.
- The extent to which the company is exposed to liquidity risk depends on its investment strategy, particularly the proportion invested in very short-term bonds;
- as there is no reference to it having any cash holdings.
- The fact that the company is small could increase the liquidity risk, particularly if it has written term assurances with large sums assured.

**Operational risk**
- The company may wish to model operational risk;
- i.e. the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events.
-  Liquidity risk is the risk arising from short-term cashflow mismatches.
- Examples of potential operational risks for this company are:
	- business interruption, e.g. due to a flood or fire;
	- conduct risk, e.g. mis-selling or poor service standards;
	- model risk, e.g. leading to incorrect product pricing.

**New business risk**
- The company might also wish to model variations in the volume of new business.
- The company might also wish to model variations in the mix of new business;
- if relevant to the purpose of the model projections. 

**Group risk** 
- The company might model group risk if it is part of a more complex corporate structure.
- Group risk arises when the activities of one firm within a group of companies can impact on the reputation or financial soundness of a different firm within the group. 

<u><b>Q1(iv)</b></u>
**What are other proxy model design considerations?**
**Model purpose**
- The most important consideration for any model design is the purpose for which the model is being built.
- If it will be used as part of Solvency II reporting, the design needs to be sufficiently robust to gain regulatory approval. 
- The purpose must be clearly defined.
- The company needs to consider whether it wishes to use the proxy model for Solvency II regulatory reporting purposes, e.g. at interim periods when a full model is not necessary.
- It needs to consider how often the model will be used, as this could influence the amount of effort that it is prepared to put into the design and build.
- It needs to consider how accurate the results need to be relative to those from the full model;
- and this will depend on the intended purpose.

**Technical design considerations**
- The proxy model approach / form needs to be decided, i.e. whether polynomial-fitting, replicating portfolio etc.
- The key risk dependencies then need to be determined in order to set the required model structure.
- Care must be taken to avoid over-fitting the proxy model (i.e. using too many factors and parameters);
- but equally to avoid under-fitting.
- The key risk factors need to be identified;
- and the design and calibration of the model should then focus on those. 
- Allowance needs to be made for diversification between risks. 
- Fitting scenarios need to be generated, perhaps using expert judgement.
- A decision needs to be made as to how the optimal fit will be determined, e.g. using a least squares regression approach or other type of optimisation algorithm.
- Another decision needs to be made as to what will constitute an ‘acceptable fit’ of the proxy model to the full model under the chosen fitting scenarios;
- including the approach by which the error will be measured;
- and tolerance limits within which these errors should fall.
- Error assessment needs to tie into ongoing model validation, which should be done at pre-determined intervals. 
- The design also needs to allow for periodic recalibration.
- Limitations of the design need to be considered and avoided where possible;
- e.g. ability to deal with negative interest rates.
- However, as it is a small company writing relatively straightforward products, the model design is unlikely to need to be highly complex.
- The design needs to be consistent with all relevant aspects of professional guidance (e.g. TAS 100, if applicable).

**Practical design considerations** 
- The cost of the development will need to be taken into account.
- The company also needs to consider its resource capacity for the model development: if this is constrained, it may need to choose a simpler design or one purchased ‘off the shelf’.
- In particular, it needs to consider the level of expertise available internally.
- It may need to obtain external advice during the design phase, e.g. from consultants. 
- The company needs to consider the amount of time that is available for the build phase.
- The design decision will also be impacted by the desired run time.
- The design may also be influenced by ease of understanding, particularly by senior management who need to demonstrate this under the ‘use test’ (if used for Solvency II reporting). 
- The cost of the development is particularly important given that it is a small company.
- Maintenance cost should also be considered. 
- The choice of proxy model approach may also depend on:
	- existing systems capabilities and speed;
	- specified deadlines for the use of outputs;
	- how easy each type is to calibrate;
	- how easy each type is to adapt or adjust;
	- availability to purchase from a proprietary model provider – particularly as this is a small company.
- The company may have used proxy models previously and be influenced by this in the design decisions.
- It may consider the approaches taken by competitors.

<u><b>Q1(v)</b></u>
**What are the required capital assessments?**
**Economic capital**
- This is an internal determination of the capital required, based on the company’s risk profile, risk appetite and the needs of its ongoing business strategy.

**Regulatory capital** 
- This relates to solvency requirements prescribed by the regulators.

**Rating agency capital**
- This represents the view of rating agencies, whose capital adequacy standards are important for companies that wish to achieve or maintain a particular credit rating

<u><b>Q1(vi)</b></u>
**What are the impact of new investment type on risks?**
**Credit risk** 
- Credit risk will increase, as indicated by the nature of the asset. 

**Market risk** 
- Market risk could reduce;
- if the new investment strategy results in better matching with liabilities.
- If the new asset type is of longer term than is available in the bond market, this would reduce reinvestment risk.
- However, market risk could increase if the strategy reduces the level of matching with liabilities.
- It could also increase due to lack of experience with this type of investment and therefore an increased risk of mis-estimating the (risk-adjusted) returns.
- Currency risk could increase if the new asset class includes loans denominated in another currency.

**Liquidity risk**
- Liquidity risk would be impacted if this investment type is more or less liquid that the existing bonds held.
- The higher expected return might reflect more than just higher credit risk, i.e. the bonds may be less liquid (higher illiquidity premium), particularly as this is a new investment type in which there may not yet be an active trading market.
- There would be no additional liquidity risk relating to this new asset type if the intention is always to hold it to maturity. 

**Operational risk**
- Operational risk may increase;
- because this is a new investment class and so the company does not have any existing experience in its management.
- Errors relating to the management of this new asset class could lead to reputational risk. 
- There is a risk that the company could lose its authorisation to use a matching adjustment.
- Model risk may increase;
- since this type of asset has not been modelled before.
- For example, it will be more difficult to set parameters such as correlations between this new asset class and the existing investments.
- As this investment type is new to insurance companies in general, there is no precedent or industry experience to utilise. 

**Life underwriting / insurance risk** 
- Expense risk may increase;
- as there will be more uncertainty about the investment expenses relating to this new class of asset.

**Other risks**
- Insurance, market and new business risks may be unchanged.
- The risk of selling low new business volumes could be reduced, if the new asset class supports environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards (e.g. providing finance to infrastructure projects that are developing renewable energy sources) and this improves the company’s reputation.

**General**
- There may be changes in the diversification benefits between the risk types, due to the changes in credit, liquidity and operational risks. 
- The changes in diversification benefits will be particularly impacted by the increase in credit risk exposure.

<u><b>Q1(vii)</b></u>
**What are the impact implications for required capital assessments?**
**General** 
- The overall amount of required capital is likely to increase for all three assessment approaches;
- due to the increase in the credit risk capital component.
- A new methodology may be required to assess the risks attaching to the new asset type, e.g. new default risk stress parameters.
- Correlation factors between risks may need to be amended.
- The increase in the amount of required capital could be offset to some extent by a reduction in market risk, if achieved.
- As this asset class is new to the whole insurance industry, there will not yet be a precedent for the methodology used to determine the new risk exposures, particularly default risk.
- This may make it challenging to develop.
- A new set of correlation factors will be required between this asset class and the bonds that continue to be held. 

**Regulatory capital**
- If the company has been approved to use a matching adjustment, as may be the case for its immediate annuity portfolio; 
- then there may be a reduction in best estimate liability (BEL). 
- This would lead to a corresponding reduction in SCR.
- However, the regulator may need to approve the use of this asset class.
- The required capital assessment under Solvency II is principally a risk-based capital approach (the SCR), so will be directly impacted by a material change in underlying risks.
- However, there would be much less impact on capital requirements if the MCR (Minimum Capital Requirement) ‘bites’;
- which is possible in this case, since it is a small company.
- If the company was using a standard formula previously for its SCR, it may need to switch to using an internal model, if the new asset class is deemed to be atypical. 
- This will require regulatory approval.
- Solvency II Pillar 1 calculations are performed on a ‘risk-neutral’ basis, and so it may not be possible to obtain any benefit from the additional expected return.

**Economic capital**
- As this may be determined on a ‘real world’ rather than ‘risk-neutral’ basis;
- the company may be able to take credit for the higher expected return, thus reducing the required capital amount.
- The economic capital assessment might use a different (more realistic) view of the illiquidity premium than that permitted under the matching or volatility adjustment, and consequently there could be more benefit from the use of this new asset type than under the regulatory capital assessment.

**Rating agency capital**
- As part of the overall assessment of capital adequacy of the company, the rating agency may be interested in understanding the company’s motivation for the change in investment strategy.
- The impact will depend on the form of the rating agency’s capital assessment model.
- As this is a new asset class, the rating agency may compare the actions taken by this company with those being taken by others in the industry, before completing its overall capital assessment.
- The rating agency is also likely to investigate the overall risk management framework and how this has been updated following the change in investment strategy. 