<u><b>Q1(i)</b></u>
**What are the risk of immediate annuities and the SCR modules?**
- Risk of policyholders live longer than expected - insurance risk module.
- Risk of expenses higher than expected - insurance risk module.
- Risk of asset liability mismatch, thus exposure to adverse movements in interest rates - market risk module.
- Risk of spreads widening on corporate bonds held - market risk module.
- Risk of defaults from reinsurance contracts or corporate bonds held - counterparty default risk module.
- Risk of failed internal process, people, and systems - operational risk module.

<u><b>Q1(ii)</b></u>
**What are the ways to improve the solvency ratio?**
- The company could either increase the amount of available capital (i.e. increase assets) or reduce the amount of technical provisions and/or SCR.

**Increase regulatory available capital**
- The company could raise new capital.
- It could do this by issuing new shares;
- or subordinated loan stock.
- The company could retain more surplus within the business, i.e. reduce dividends.

**Reduce technical provisions / SCR**
- The company could use a matching adjustment.
- The company could reduce the level of risk within the business.
- It could purchase reinsurance;
- or enter into a longevity swap.
- It could outsource administration to reduce expense uncertainty.
- It could improve the matching of assets to liabilities.
- It could invest in a higher proportion of government bonds rather than corporate bonds;
- or only invest in corporate bonds with credit ratings above a certain level.
- It could reduce operational risk by taking out insurance to provide cover against the impact of external events;
- or by improving staff training.
- The company could restrict new business volumes.
- The company could use policy-by-policy data rather than grouped model points.
- It could apply to use a volatility adjustment when valuing business for which it had not been permitted to use a matching adjustment.
- It could improve any approximations made in the risk margin calculations.
- The company could impose expense controls.
- It could reduce investment in risky assets.
- It is most important to improve asset-liability matching by duration.
- The company could invest in assets with yields that are more closely matched to swap rates.
- It could use derivatives, e.g. interest rate swaps or credit derivatives.
- It could limit its exposure to each corporate bond counterparty.
- It could reduce its operational risk by putting business continuity plans in place.
- The company could diversify its risks by writing another type of products with a different risk profile;
- e.g. term assurances or equity release mortgages.
- The company could move from a standard formula to an internal model calculation.

<u><b>Q1(iii)</b></u>
**What is the use of a matching adjustment?**
**Why appropriate for this type of business**
- Immediate annuities have long-term and predictable liabilities;
- particularly as they cannot be surrendered.
- Fixed-interest assets can be chosen to match these liabilities;
- and these will be held to maturity.
- The regulatory requirements are therefore met, as the company is not exposed to the risk of changing spreads on these assets.

**Impact on Solvency II technical provisions**
- The matching adjustment is added to the risk-free discount rate; 
- and therefore the value of the technical provisions (both BEL and risk margin) will be reduced.

<u><b>Q1(iv)</b></u>
**What is the impact of a matching adjustment on standard formula SCR?**
- The credit spread widening component of the SCR will reduce. 
- This is because the matching adjustment will increase under stressed conditions;
- by the extent to which the spread widening is attributable to reduced liquidity.
- The discount rate for the technical provisions is therefore increased.
- Hence the value of the technical provisions within the stressed net asset value calculation in the SCR standard formula will reduce.
- Other SCR components may also reduce, due to the rate used to discount the stressed technical provisions now being higher due to the inclusion of the matching adjustment.
- Overall, the SCR will reduce. 
- Spread risk is part of the market risk module.
- The reduction in the spread risk component of the SCR is likely to be significant.
- A higher discount rate 'dampens' other stress tests.
- This is because using a higher discount rate reduces the technical provisions and hence the magnitude of any stress applied to them;
- e.g. the stresses applied in the life insurance risk module.

<u><b>Q1(v)</b></u>
**How should the company identify matching assets for annuity business?**
**Matching**
- Assets should be chosen to match the immediate annuity business.
- The matching needs to be done by term;
- nature;
- and currency.
- For example, if there are index-linked annuities then index-linked bonds should be used.

**Modelling**
- In order to identify matching assets, it is necessary to project both asset and liability cashflows.
- Asset cashflows will comprise both coupon and redemption payments.
- Liability cashflows comprises annuity benefits;
- and expenses.
- Assumptions should be on a best estimate basis.
- Policy-by-policy data will be required for the liabilities.
- Data will also be required for each individual asset.
- Deductions should be made from the asset cashflows to allow for expected default.
- These deductions may vary by the credit rating of the assets.
- Detailed data will be required for each asset, including coupon timings.
- This may not be held on actuarial systems, but could be obtained from the investment department.
- It may be possible to use BEL model for the projection of liability cashflows.

**Practicalities**
- The company will start by considering the existing portfolio of assets.
- However, it may be necessary to sell existing assts and purchase new ones in order to improve matching.
- When doing so, it needs to consider the related transaction costs.
- The company is likely to have already performed a matching exercise on the overall portfolio.
- Hence any issues relating to difficulties in finding assets of suitable duration should already have been overcome.
- However, the regulator may require a closer degree of matching in order to approve the use of a matching adjustment.
- If needing to sell and purchase assets, the company needs to take into consideration the time needed to do this. 
- It also needs to consider implications for product pricing of any changes to the risk-adjusted yields.
- The company should consider the need to reassess the portfolio as new business is written.
- The company may wish to consider the extent to which the remaining assets are appropriate to back the deferred annuities.

**Risks**
- The company also needs to consider the credit risk within existing or new assets.
- The company will need to ensure that liquidity risk is minimised.
- If the company is trading assets, it will need to manage credit risk by avoiding too much exposure to a single counterparty.

**Constraints and purpose**
- The company needs to take into account any restrictions imposed by the regulator.
- The assets ideally should be fixed-interest or index-linked corporate bonds.
- The assets chosen should ideally have a material illiquidity premium.

<u><b>Q1(vi)</b></u>
**What are other practical changes to produce a separate balance sheet?**
**Calculation of the matching adjustment**
- The company will have to set up a process by which the matching adjustment is calculated.
- This will need to start from the actual spread of the portfolio of assets that have been identified to match the immediate annuities;
- and then deduct the fundamental spread provided by EIOPA.
- New documentation is required for this new process.
- Compliance with the process will need to be monitored.

**Use of the matching adjustment**
- The technical provisions calculation model will need to be amended;
- to use a different yield curve for the immediate annuities business rather than the deferred annuity business.

**Separation of portfolios**
- The company may choose to hold the identified matching assets in a completely separate portfolio.
- It will have to ensure that cashflows are allocated to or from the correct sub-portfolio.
- It will need to decide how to divide the surplus assets between the two sub-portfolios.
- This may require new bank accounts to be set up, one for the immediate annuity business and one for the deferred annuity business.
- It may be necessary to reconsider the allocation of overhead expenses between the two portfolios.
- The company will need to be able to separate any reinsurance arrangements relating to the two types of business.

<u><b>Q1(vii)</b></u>
**What are additional considerations for future compliance?**
- The company will need to rebalance the asset portfolio in the future;
- to ensure it remains matched to the liability cashflows.
- For example, due to adding new business to the portfolio.
- This may involve needing to sell some existing assets and purchase new ones.
- The company will needs to consider how frequently to reassess the matching position and rebalance the portfolio.
- Rather than selling and purchasing assets, it may be possible to swap assets with those allocated to match the deferred annuities.
- New assets purchased will need to meet the regulatory requirements.
- It may become more difficult to find assets of appropriately long term;
- or with sufficient illiquidity premium to justify the matching adjustment application.
- Selling and purchasing new assets will incur transaction costs and take time.

<u><b>Q1(viii)</b></u>
**What are the relevant Technical Actuarial Standards (TAS)?**
**TAS to consider**
- TAS 100
- TAS 200

**Relevance**
- The data used for setting the matching adjustment must be sufficiently accurate, complete and appropriate for the purpose. 
- The matching adjustment assumption should be appropriate and relevant.
- The actuarial model used for setting the matching adjustment must be fit for purpose.
- Information relating to the determination of the matching adjustment should be presented in a clear, comprehensive and comprehensible manner.
- The actuarial model used for setting the matching adjustment must be subject to sufficient controls and testing. 
- Documentation of the model should contain enough detail for a competent person with no previous knowledge of the work to understand the matters involved and the judgements made.

<u><b>Q1(ix)</b></u>
**What is the impact of the matching adjustment on IFRS liabilities?**
- There may be no change to IFRS liabilities;
- since the matching adjustment applies only to the Solvency II supervisory balance sheet.
- However,  the assets that are allocated to the liabilities may have changed following the matching exercise;
- for example due to new assets having been purchased.
- If this is the case, then the Solvency I valuation rates of interest may have changed, as these are based on the yields on the backing assets.
- A higher valuation rate of interest would result in lower liabilities, and vice versa.
- The assets backing the liabilities for each of the immediate and deferred annuities may instead have changed due to having a different allocation between those two portfolios of business than previously.
- If the assets that are now allocated to back the immediate annuity business have lower yields on average than across the whole portfolio;
- and if the valuation rate of interest used was previously the same for both immediate and deferred annuities;
- then the IFRS liabilities may overall reduce;
- since the deferred annuity business has a longer outstanding duration than the immediate annuity business.
- The company may decide to change the IFRS approach to be based on Solvency II technical provisions rather than Solvency I liabilities. 
- This would result in a significant change in IFRS liabilities.