<u><b>Q2(i)</b></u>
**What is covered in the PPFM?**
- The PPFM content areas are:
	- determining payouts to policyholders;
	- annual bonus policy;
	- terminal bonus policy;
	- smoothing policy;
	- investment strategy;
	- business risk;
	- charges and expenses;
	- management of the inherited estate;
	- closure to new business;
	- achieving equity between policyholders and shareholders;
	- determining asset shares.

<u><b>Q2(ii)</b></u>
**What are the reasons for removing annuities from closed WPF?**
**Existing business** 
**Fair distribution of profits arising**
- The main reason is likely to be to deal with the problem that will otherwise arise: that profits will still be expected to arise on this business beyond the point at which the with-profits business has all matured, and hence there will be no with-profits policyholders to which to distribute those profits.
- The company therefore needs to be able to recognise those profits and distribute them whilst there are still some with-profits policyholders (the owners of such profits) in-force.
- The company will wish to avoid a ‘tontine effect’;
- whereby a small number of remaining with-profits policies receive a disproportionately high share of profits arising.
- There is significant uncertainty as to the profits (or losses) that could arise on the immediate annuity business, particularly in relation to future longevity;
- and the company may wish to avoid the build-up of this risk within the WPF, particularly as it has to be shared over a decreasing number of policies.
- The company may wish to provide a one-off special bonus to with-profits policyholders now, before too many more of them leave. 
- The project enables the company to manage better the pace of distribution of profits arising in the WPF.
- This helps it to ensure that the distribution is fair and equitable. 

**Capital management** 
- The company might wish to increase the available capital in the WPF;
- which is achieved by removing the need to hold required capital for the immediate annuities.
- The company might have a significant portfolio of protection business in its NPF,;
- and it therefore wishes to obtain a direct benefit from diversification of the mortality risk in that portfolio with the longevity risk underlying the immediate annuities.
- The company may wish to reduce the Solvency Capital Requirement (SCR) that relates to the WPF on a standalone basis;
- and hence improve the financial strength of the WPF.
- It could use this released capital to increase investment freedom within the WPF in order to improve returns to with-profits policyholders. 
- The WPF could currently be much weaker than the NPF. 
- The released capital could avoid the need for a capital injection from shareholders;
- which would be difficult to return to shareholders in future if conditions improve.
- Having all of the longevity risk in the NPF might be preferred by the company in order to manage its capital more effectively.
- There may be significant levels of available capital in the NPF;
- which can support the longevity risk of the immediate annuity portfolio.
- High levels of available capital in the NPF could allow a riskier investment strategy to be taken in relation to the immediate annuities;
- thereby increasing profit. 
- The risk appetite of the NPF might be more risk-seeking than the WPF.
- The volatility of profits on the immediate annuity portfolio within the WPF may be too high for the risk appetite of the WPF.
- There may be opportunity to gain greater diversification of credit risk on corporate bonds in the NPF.
- There may be more limited risk diversification opportunities in the WPF.

**Other possible reasons**
- There may be tax synergies or benefits arising from the project.
- The company may wish to move expense economies of scale (i.e. lower per policy expenses due to greater sharing of overheads across a larger policy base) out of the WPF into the NPF;
- in order to benefit shareholders directly. 
- The project will simplify the business structure. 
- It might make it easier to sell off parts of the business (e.g. the residual with-profits business).
- The approach is cheaper than trying to find an external purchaser for the immediate annuity portfolio.
- Investment expenses on the assets backing the annuity business may be reduced;
- if investment overheads for similar asset types can now be shared across the other business in the NPF.
- There may be other expense efficiencies that can be implemented.
- The project may be being undertaken at the request of the With-Profits Actuary or With-Profits Committee.
- The project may be being driven by one of the regulators.

**Future business**
- The main reason is likely to be to ensure that shareholders now receive 100% of profits from this future business;
- rather than the 10% that they currently receive.
- This could lead to higher dividends.
- It is possible that the WPF does not have sufficient capital to support the new business strain arising from continuing to write annuity policies. 
- The proposal relating to future business will increase the reported profit of the company;
- if the immediate annuity business is being written on profitable terms.
- It may improve (or at least support) the share price. 
- The higher profits may be retained as surplus within the NPF.
- This will increase the financial strength of the NPF;
- and therefore make it more attractive to future new without-profits business customers. 
- The credit rating of the company might be improved.
- Alternatively, the higher retained profit could be used for other strategic projects e.g. developing a new product or system, acquiring another business.
- It could be used to improve the investment freedom for new annuities (e.g. higher proportion of corporate bonds rather than government bonds);
- which could be used to improve annuity rates offered into the market;
- hence potentially increasing sales volumes. 

<u><b>Q2(iii)</b></u>
**What are the considerations to take into account when determining transaction amounts?**
**Existing business**
- The starting point for the transaction amount in relation to existing business should be the Solvency II technical provisions;
- i.e. the best estimate liability (BEL) and risk margin (RM).
- This is because this is the amount that is intended to represent what would have to be paid to another party in order for them to take on the best estimate liability – as is the case here.
- However, the technical provisions as reported in the Solvency II balance sheet may need to be adjusted for this particular purpose.
- The BEL may not be considered by the company to be a true ‘best estimate’ of the value of the liabilities.
- In particular, the company may not have been permitted to use a matching or volatility adjustment;
- or the amount permitted by regulation might not be consistent with the company’s own view of the illiquidity premium on any corporate bonds held.
- Similarly, the RM may not be considered to be sufficient to cover the cost of capital held since it relates to only a subset of the SCR.
- The amount in relation to the existing business must represent an appropriate view of the assets needed to support the portfolio of business that is being transferred.
- The technical provisions used as the starting point need to be identified separately for just the immediate annuity business.
- If reinsurance is used, the technical provisions should be netted down by the value of reinsurance recoveries.
- The RM should be included in the transaction amount because it is the theoretical compensation for the risk of future experience being worse than the best estimate assumptions;
- and for the cost of holding regulatory capital against this;
- since this risk and cost now passes to the NPF. 
- This includes the cost of holding the SCR;
- but only in respect of those risks that are deemed to be non-hedgeable.
- The NPF might also want compensation in respect of the cost of holding capital to cover hedgeable risks that will not be hedged.
- The RM might need to be adjusted from the value included in the Solvency II balance sheet due to different diversification benefits that will exist when the business is transferred to the NPF.
- The company might also feel that the 6% pa cost of capital parameter used in the RM calculation (as specified by EIOPA) is not appropriate, e.g. too high.
- The technical provisions might be calculated based on the current asset portfolio mix.
- Adjustments might be made if there are intended changes to the investment strategy following movement of this business into the NPF. 

**Future business**
- The amount paid back to the WPF from the NPF in relation to future new business should reflect compensation for the expected future profits that will no longer be received by with-profits policyholders.
- This is equivalent to the ‘goodwill’ component of an appraisal value.
- In order to determine this amount, the company will need to estimate the fair value of these expected future profits. This value will require assumptions relating to the future new business mix and volume;
- and a decision about the time period over which the profits will be valued (i.e. beyond which no compensation is deemed necessary).
- The value attributed to the future new business might depend on whether this business comes from maturing with-profits policies or from customers external to the company. 
- If the former, the WPF might be entitled to a higher compensation amount.
- The decision about the time horizon over which future new business is valued will depend on the company’s interpretation of policyholders’ reasonable expectations in relation to these future profits.
- The PPFM should be checked in order to determine the extent to which the with-profits policyholders should have expectations about receiving these future profits.

**General**
- The amounts need to be fair and equitable to both the WPF (principally the with-profits policyholders) and the NPF (principally the shareholders). 
- The amounts should be adjusted to allow for costs incurred in relation to the transaction.
- There may also need to be adjustments applied to the determined amounts to reflect any change in tax status of either fund as a result of the transaction. 
- The With-Profits Actuary needs to approve the transaction amounts. 
- External consultants may be utilised to provide advice on appropriate transaction amounts. 
- The approach taken needs to be consistent with anything that has been set out in the PPFM. 
- It is important that the amounts are set in a way that ensures that no group of policyholders is materially disadvantaged;
- including in terms of security within each fund.
- The company needs to decide how to split the transaction costs between the WPF and NPF.
- Tax may change if the WPF is taxed as a standalone business;
- and the loss of the immediate annuity business changes the tax calculations significantly.
- The company may look at how transaction amounts were determined for other recent similar transactions, if it is possible to gain this information.
- The With-Profits Committee will input to the decision;
- as will the Chief Actuary (or Actuarial Function Holder). 
- They need to agree the final transaction amounts.
- It is likely that two ranges will be set for each amount: one that would be acceptable to the WPF and one that would be acceptable to the NPF;
- and then hopefully there will be an intersection within which the amounts can be finalised.
- The net amount transferred to the NPF might be lower than that which would be accepted by an external party in the same situation;
- e.g. due to having more confidence about the data and assumptions used.

<u><b>Q2(iv)</b></u>
**How to ensure that policyholders are treated fairly in the transaction?**
**TCF principles**
- The company needs to ensure that it is meeting the FCA’s Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) principles.

**Process** 
- The company might decide to appoint an independent expert. 
- They will assess the likely impact that the transfer will have on:
	- the transferring policyholders (immediate annuitants);
	- the with-profits policyholders remaining in the WPF;
	- the existing policyholders in the NPF.
- Communications need to be sent to all policyholders about the transaction. 
- This will need to set out the implications of the transaction in very clear terms.
- The objective of appointing an independent expert is to gain unbiased assurance that no policyholder will be materially disadvantaged by the transaction.
- In particular, they will consider whether the security of the existing annuitants’ benefits has been compromised by transferring them to the NPF;
- and, similarly, whether the transfer in of this additional risk has compromised the security of the business that is already in the NPF. 
- The independent expert will also consider the impact on future annuitants.
- It may be felt appropriate to perform the transaction on an ‘arms-length basis’, having different teams advising the WPF and the NPF.
- The PPFM needs to be consulted in order to check that the transfer is actually permitted.
- The company may decide to set up a helpline in order to provide more information to policyholders to help them to understand the transaction, following receipt of the communications.
- It will need to give policyholders sufficient time to digest and understand the information provided.
- Similarly, it will need to give them time to raise any objections with the independent expert or regulators.

**Equity**
- As well as the groups mentioned above, the company also needs to ensure that it is treating different groups of with-profits policyholders fairly;
- e.g. different generations.
- It will also need to ensure that the transfer is fair to policyholders relative to shareholders.
- Equitable treatment of different groups of with-profits policyholders is particularly relevant in relation to any special one-off bonus that is given;
- e.g. in relation to compensation for the loss of profits on future new immediate annuity business.
- Such groups could also include with-profits policies of different:
	- product type;
	- policy duration;
	- policy size.
- For example, the special bonus could be allocated in proportion to asset share.

**Policyholders’ reasonable expectations (PRE)**
- The company needs to ensure that PRE are met. 
- Therefore, it needs to consider any past practice in similar situations.
- It also needs to consider what has been set out in the PPFM. 
-  PRE could depend on the actions of competitors in similar transactions.
- It will also be influenced by what has been stated in literature other than the PPFM.

<u><b>Q2(v)</b></u>
**What are changes required in the PPFM?**
**Determining payouts** 
- The description of asset share calculations would need to be amended;
- if it currently refers to the addition of profits arising from (existing) immediate annuities business.
- Any reference to receiving profits from future new without-profits business would need to be removed from the asset share description.

**Bonus policy** 
- The description of the balance between regular and terminal bonuses may need to be amended.
- For example, there may be a relative increase in regular (guaranteed) bonus due to the reduction in other risk within the WPF following the transfer out of the annuity business. 

**Smoothing policy**
- The description of smoothing policy may need to be amended;
- for example, because the degree of smoothing may be able to increase;
- due to there now being more certainty in relation to the amount of capital (estate) available to support smoothing. 

**Investment strategy** 
- The description of the investment strategy may need to be amended;
- if it includes details of how the assets backing immediate annuity business is invested. 
- The investment strategy section may need to be amended if there is a change in strategy for the remaining (i.e. non-annuity) without-profits business in the WPF following the transaction. 

**Management of inherited estate**
- The description of how the inherited estate is managed may need to be amended;
- since the pace or method of distribution may now have changed, following removal of the issues relating to the distribution of profits from the immediate annuities business. 

**General**
- There may need to be an additional section included in the PPFM describing the transaction and any related special one-off bonus;
- given that it is a significant event for the WPF. 

**Business risk** 
- The section on business risk may need to be amended;
- if this currently refers to the longevity risk arising on the immediate annuity business.

**Charges and expenses**
- The section on charges and expenses may need to be amended;
- if there is a change in approach as a result of adjusting the way in which overheads are spread.

<u><b>Q2(vi)</b></u>
**What other issues relate to the transaction process?**
**Practical issues**
- The company needs to consider whether it has sufficient resources to implement the project and, if not, how to secure additional resources.
- The time period over which the project is implemented will need to be considered carefully.
- It will be important to appoint a strong project manager to lead the implementation of the project.
- The total costs of the project need to be carefully monitored and controlled. 
- The following may need to be updated as a result of the project:
	- systems;
	- policy literature / marketing literature;
	- administration processes / staff training.
- The company will have to be prepared to deal with a large number of queries from policyholders.
- It will have to check that all data used in the transaction process (e.g. to determine transaction amounts) is of good quality. 
- If the company is changing its investment strategy;
- it will need to decide which existing assets to sell and which new assets to purchase.
- There needs to be agreement between those representing the WPF and NPF about which specific assets to transfer;
- and the values of those assets at the time at which the transfer will be done;
- particularly for those assets where there is no observable market value.
- The With-Profits Actuary in particular would have a view as to which assets should be transferred. 
- The date at which the transaction is to take place needs to be agreed.
- This should be the date at which the assets physically switch funds;
- and also the date at which the shareholders rather than with-profits policyholders take on the underlying liability risks. 
- It may be sensible to align this date with a key reporting date;
- e.g. the year end or half year;
- when asset and liability valuations will already be available.
- If assets have to be bought and sold due to intended changes to investment strategy, it may not be possible to do this all at once; 
- so it might instead take place in tranches over a period, e.g. a few months.
- The transferred assets may need to be ring-fenced (i.e. separately identified) within the new NPF;
- and similarly for the transferred policies.
- All new annuity policies need to have a marker showing that they are written into the NPF.
- Asset share calculation systems need to be amended in order to no longer include profits from the immediate annuity business. 
- It may be necessary to clean the valuation data before it can be used.
- It is important to check death notifications, to ensure that the annuity policies being transferred are in fact still in-force.
- There needs to be agreement about whether the NPF or WPF is responsible for any past legacy issues, e.g. due to:
	- poor data;
	- valuation errors;
	- mis-selling;
	- and for how long.
- The company will have to consider whether the WPF will provide any warranties to the NPF about such issues.
- Such a warranty would provide a contractual guarantee that the WPF would compensate the NPF for any loss or cost incurred in relation to a specific issue or issues.
- Reporting templates will need to be changed.
- Solvency II balance sheets will have to be reconstructed after the transaction, to reflect the different allocation of business between funds.
- The risk margin and SCR calculations may need to be updated, e.g. due to different diversification allowances.
- Similarly, the accounting (e.g. IFRS) balance sheets will need to be updated. 
- The company needs to consider how to allow for the transaction in its analysis of surplus.

**Additional risks**
- The company will need to consider the additional risks that are generated by the transaction, particularly those that will impact the shareholders. 
- These include operational risks relating to the project delivery;
- e.g. implementation cost over-runs.
- The additional risks generated by the project need to be within the company’s risk appetite.
- The transaction may generate reputational risk if some policyholders are not happy with the arrangement, or if errors are made during the transfer. 

**Stakeholders** 
- The company needs to inform the regulators. 
- It also needs to inform / communicate with its distributors, to reassure them.
- Similarly, it should engage with any reinsurers that it uses for the immediate annuity business.
-  The board needs to agree to the transaction taking place.
- The company needs to ensure that the project does not distract senior management from other important strategic goals. 
- Both the FCA and PRA would need to be involved;
- and may need to give their consent or, at least, not raise any objection.
- The company needs to consider whether an announcement is required for the stock market and/or analysts.
- The views of credit rating agencies should also be taken into consideration.
- The company may need to decide who manages the investment portfolio, if different managers are used at present for WPF and NPF assets;
- and any resultant impact on the investment fees charged.

**Other issues** 
- Action may need to be taken if the solvency of the NPF is compromised by the transfer;
- e.g. by raising additional capital.
- The company may have to reapply for matching adjustment approval, if there are changes to the backing assets.
- It should be checked that the project is consistent with the existing run-off plan that was prepared for the regulators when the fund was originally closed.
- The company should consider any potential tax issues. 
- It also needs to decide how to split the transaction costs between the NPF and WPF.
- It may decide to move the remaining without-profits business in the WPF into the NPF for efficiency.