<u><b>Q2(iii)</b></u>
**What are the unit pricing risks?**
- There is a risk that the company does not treat all unit-holders equitably or fairly.
- This may arise from errors in the calculation of the prices at which units are allocated or deallocated from policyholders.
- Similarly for the prices at which units are created or cancelled.
- There is a risk relating to the way in which compensation for errors or inequities of a material size is determined. 
- There is a risk that the company does not change its pricing basis between bid and offer when it needs to.
- There may be a significant difference between the actual tax incurred and the allowance made for tax within the unit-linked funds;
- particularly in respect of unrealised capital gains and realised / unrealised losses (if they are not taxed as they arise).
- Where the company allows surrenders to occur at a preceding price;
- selective surrenders may occur.
- Selection against the company is particularly problematic if funds are invested in markets in different time zones.
- Further risks can arise where certain internal unit-linked funds invest in other unit-linked funds or in external unit trusts;
- and where there may be inappropriate double-charging of maintenance fees.
- Data inadequacies may relate to asset values, the amounts of accrued income, and expenses and management charges deducted from (or rebated to) the fund.
- In particular, property valuations are performed infrequently and so the value of direct property used in the unit pricing calculations may be out-of-date or materially mis-stated.

<u><b>Q2(iv)</b></u>
**What are other operational risks?**
**Process**
- Processes may fail or be inadequate.
- For example, unit transactions may not be processed correctly.
- Customer service levels may be poor.
- If such event occurs, there is related reputational risk.
- Product pricing may not be appropriate.
- This is particularly the case for the new product, as there will be no existing experience data.
- There is a risk that the company behaves in a way which results in poor outcomes for its customers.
- For example, it might fail to keep pace with (or meet) customer needs.
- There may be a mis-selling risk.
- Errors may be made in the payment of the guaranteed death benefit.
- Errors may be made in the cancellation of units in order to take charges from the new product.
- Smoker status may be incorrectly recorded.
- There may be inadequate analysis of experience.
- Product terms may not be well worded;
- which generates compliance risk.
- Customer service quality may be compromised if levels of new business are high.
- If customer service is poor, there are related risks of lower future new business;
- and lower persistency rates.
- There is a risk of high numbers of complaints and a need to pay compensation.
- Conduct risk also relates to information asymmetries;
- e.g. as may arise if there is any underwriting used in relation to the minimum death benefit under the new contract.
- The company may fail to keep pace with market conditions, e.g. by not expanding its range of available unit-linked fund choices to include ethical / 'green' / sustainable options.
- The mis-selling risk is relatively low as the product is distributed by financial advisers.
- The company may fail to comply with employment law;
- or meet workplace health and safety standards.

**People**
- Mistakes may be made in administering the products;
- due to human error.
- For example, allocating a premium to the wrong unit-linked fund.
- There may be high staff turnover rates.
- In particular, there is a risk a key employee leaves.
- There is a risk that the company is subject to fraud;
- in relation to its staff;
- or its policyholders.
- Employees may not be remunerated in a way which leads to good customer service outcomes.
- Expert judgement may be required for pricing, since no existing experience data is available, and this may be inadequate.

**Systems**
- IT systems may fail.
- Models used may be inaccurate;
- or not appropriate for the intended purpose.
- There may be data errors.
- The IT system may not be set up correctly for the new product.
- For example, insufficient data may be recorded in order to allow each policy to be administered correctly;
- or for risk management purposes.
- Actuarial models (e.g. for pricing) may be incorrectly specified.
- There is a risk that data security or data protection requirements are breached.

**External events**
- There may be business interruption from external events.
- The physical assets of the company may be damaged;
- e.g. its office buildings.
- This may be due to a flood, for example.
- The company is exposed to risks in regulatory changes;
- and similarly changes in taxation rules.

<u><b>Q2(v)</b></u> 
**What is the impact on operational risk on outsourcing administration?**
- The operational risks may be reduced by outsourcing;
- if the external company has a strong operational risk control environment.
- However, operational risk relating to physical assets are increased as these now include the external company's assets.
- Administration-related operational risks (e.g. quality of customer service) may also increase as the life insurance company now has less control over the process.
- The extent of the impact will depend on the level of expertise of the external company.
- It will also depend on the quality of its systems;
- and of its management and staff.
- The potential impact will also depend on the mitigations put in place by the life insurance company, including service level agreement.
- The operational risks still exist.
- The potential impact will depend on:
	- the extent of due diligence conducted by the life insurance company before selecting the outsourcer;
	- the degree of monitoring that will be put in place;
	- possibly the size and location of the outsourcer;
	- the extent to which the new product differs from those already administered by the external company;
	- how the administration staff are incentivised;
	- the precise rules within the service level agreement relating to the allocation of blame;
	- and rules relating to compensation.
- There may be additional legal risk relating to any disputes over the application of the outsourcing contract.
- There will be additional operating risk relating to the transfer of data from the insurance company to the outsourcer.

<u><b>Q2(vi)</b></u> 
**What are the other risks relating to selling the new product?**
**Credit (or counterparty) risk**
- There is default risk in relation to any corporate bond holdings.
- There is also the risk that the planned external outsourcing company will default or fail to perform its contractual obligations.
- The outsourcer may fail to meet its obligations in a timely manner.
- It may focus its resources on other clients rather than on this product.
- There is default risk in relation to any reinsurance used for the additional death benefit.
- There is counterparty risk in relation to the recovery of premium balances held by the financial advisers.
- There is default risk in relation to any cash deposit holdings.

**Market risk**
- There is a risk of lower than expected investment return on the unit funds;
- leading to lower fund-based charges being taken;
- and a greater chance of the guaranteed minimum death benefit 'biting'.
- There is a risk of higher than expected expense inflation.
- Poor investment performance can lead to lower future new business or lower persistency.

**Liquidity risk**
- There is a risk of being unable to meet short-term cash outflow needs. 
- This is particularly the case in relation to unit cancellations on policies that are invested in direct property fund.
- This can rise, for example, if the unit value cannot be realised at the time at which a payment needs to be made to the policyholder. 
- If the payment of a benefit on a policy invested in the property fund is deferred, this may generate reputational risk.

**Insurance risk**
- Due to the guaranteed minimum death benefit;
- there is a risk of higher than expected mortality.
- This is particularly the case at early durations.
- There is a risk of higher than expected surrenders;
- particularly at early durations when initial expenses have not yet been recovered through charges.
- There is a risk of higher than expected administration expenses for the new product.\
- Mortality risk is highest during the period before the unit fund has grown sufficiently to exceed the sum of premiums payable over the whole term of the policy.
- High mortality rates might arise due to a pandemic event. 
- The mortality charges at outset may be insufficient to meet the actual mortality cost.
- For example, the gender mix assumed in the average mortality rates may be different to the actual mix achieved. 
- The underwriting used may not be consistent with that assumed when setting the mortality rates for the charges.
- Higher than expected surrenders will also result in loss of future profits from charges.
- The expenses relating to the product design and launch initiatives may be higher than expected.

**New business risk**
- There is a risk of higher than expected new business volumes;
- which could cause administration strain.
- There is a risk of lower than expected new business volumes;
- which could result in fixed costs not being recovered.
- This could arise if competitors launch a similar but more attractive product, e.g. with a higher guaranteed death benefit.
- There is a risk of adverse new business mix, e.g. smaller than expected average policy size.
- New business volume risk is particularly high as this is a very new type of product for this company, so the sales volume will be difficult to estimate.
- Competitors may cut charges on their existing products in order to divert sales away from this new product.
- Competitors may launch more attractive unit funds.
- If policies written are smaller on average than expected, then the charges collected may not cover fixed expenses.

<u><b>Q2(vii)</b></u> 
**What are the possible risk mitigation actions?**
**Credit (or counterparty) risk** 
- Use a range of counterparties (diversification). 
- Only deal with counterparties that have a high credit rating;
- or, where this is not applicable (e.g. outsourcers) a good track record.
- Ensure that there is a robust service level agreement in place with the outsourcer, which clearly sets out expectations and penalties. 
- Monitor key metrics for each counterparty;
- particularly those that will indicate in advance potential issues in relation to non-fulfilment of obligations.
- Use deposit back or collateral arrangements.

**Market risk** 
- Do not offer unit funds that invest in asset types which have very volatile values. 
- Make the management charge variable (rather than fixed at outset). 
- Use hedging (e.g. derivatives) to reduce the volatility of unit values and hence charges received. 

**Liquidity risk**
- Maintain adequate cash balances.
- Include a clause in the policy that allows deferral of payment of a benefit to the customer if invested in the direct property fund.
- Use indirect rather than direct property investment.
- Ensure that there are emergency overdraft facilities available from a bank. 
- Do not offer the direct property fund.
- The property fund clause could have a deferral period of several months.

**Insurance risk**
- Reduce the guaranteed minimum death benefit, e.g. to return of premiums paid to date.
- Increase the margin loaded into the charges. 
- Make the mortality charges variable.
- Use reinsurance.
- Increase the level of underwriting used.
- Introduce a surrender penalty.
- Only use financial advisers that experience high levels of persistency.
- Change the charging structure to improve the matching of charges and expenses;
- e.g. by introducing an initial charge.
- Improve control of internal expenses.
- Remove the guaranteed minimum death benefit completely.
- Ensure that the marketing of the product is in line with the intended gender split.
- Use technical assistance from a reinsurer to set the mortality rates. 
- Monitor experience regularly and feed it back into the pricing.
- Implement a retention project.
- Provide training to financial advisers that will motivate them to encourage persistency. 
- Allow premium amounts to be flexible (rather than level throughout). 
- Introduce a per policy expense charge as well as a charge based on the fund value.

**New business risk** 
- Undertake market research on likely new business volumes.
- Monitor the actions of competitors. 
- Introduce a minimum premium level.
- Impose new business volume limits.
- Compare the proposed product with those currently available in the market.
- Monitor customer satisfaction, with both the product;
- and the quality of customer service.
- If competitors change their products to become more attractive, improve this product correspondingly.
- If this is not feasible without compromising profit, consider no longer selling the product.