<u><b>Q2(i)</u></b>
**Why are these particular products appropriate for the company?**
- Need to replace lost new business;
- and lost profit.
- These may be attractive in the market
- The aging population may mean this market is expanding Both current and proposed products target older customers.
- The main risk for these products is mortality.
- The company already has experience in assessing mortality/longevity risks for older lives.
- Thus it may have a competitive advantage.
- As it writes impaired life annuities, it will also have experience of underwriting;
- which may be of relevance for the inheritance tax product.
- For the annuity business, longevity is the main concern.
- For these products, early death is the main concern.
- So these products will provide some diversification of mortality risk.
- So the SCR may reduce.
- For the inheritance tax product, the company may be able to use its current distribution approach.
- But there are opportunities for an alternative, simpler distribution channel.

<u><b>Q2(ii)</u></b>
**What are the risks to the policyholder of the inheritance tax planning product?**
**Risks from the product**
- The initial sum assured might be set at the (expected) level of inheritance tax at outset;
- but it is unlikely that, over time, the sum assured will match the inheritance tax due at the time of death.
- There may be a change in the way inheritance tax is calculated.
- For example, due to a change in the inheritance tax rate change;
- or a greater accumulation of wealth with age;
- or assets held increasing in value at a different rate than the national index; 
- e.g. property.
- There is therefore a risk that the sum assured is lower than the inheritance tax due;
- and it may not be possible to change the existing policy/the existing policy is not flexible.
- The value for money reduces the longer they live.
- The policyholder's health may have deteriorated;
- making it impossible or expensive to increase the sum assured (or purchase an additional policy).
- Alternatively, changes may make the policy unnecessary;
- increased spending over time erodes the tax liability;
- and so the policyholder may have to surrender the policy;
- and the surrender value may represent a poor return on the premiums paid.
- So there is a risk that the product no longer meets the needs of the policyholder.
- There is the risk that the policyholder has been mis-advised;
- such as the inheritance liability was mis-calculated;
- and so could have got a better product from a different company;
- or the product does not best meet the needs of the policyholder.
- The policyholder may have been misled to believe that the benefit would indemnify the inheritance tax liability.

**Risks from the company**
- There is the risk that the company becomes insolvent;
- and so does not pay the benefit on death.
- This may be exacerbated if the company cannot successfully find a new strategy to replace the loss of annuity business.
- The policyholder may not be able to afford to continue to pay the premiums; 
- e.g. due to accident or sickness (either); 
- or redundancy or reduced income at retirement (either).

<u><b>Q2(iii)</u></b>
**Why the company's existing distribution channels may or may not be suitable?**
- The in-force policyholders use financial advisers and will most likely have purchased their annuities from the proceeds of a pension arrangement;
- thus they are likely to be reasonably affluent;
- and financially sophisticated;
- and so the product is not likely to meet their needs
- They are also likely to be above retirement age;
- on average perhaps in their 70s.
- It is unlikely that the guaranteed over 50s product would be a suitable product for financial advisers to sell.
- As the premiums will be low;
- and so the level of commission would not justify the effort.
- The product would appeal to customers who would like a simple product that is easy to understand.
- Due to the maximum sum assured, premiums are likely to be low.
- The most effective method of distribution for this product is likely to be direct marketing.
- This would imply that the likely target market for this product will probably of lower socio-economic group to the annuitants; 
- and less financially sophisticated;
- and less likely to have savings and so may be concerned about funeral costs. 
- There is the risk of anti-selection if advisors are used, given the absence of underwriting.

<u><b>Q2(iv)</u></b>
**How conduct risk may arise for the company?**
- Conduct risk is the risk that firm behaviour will result in poor outcomes for customers.
- There could be poor control of distribution.
- Marketing literature may be unclear or misleading.
- The different target market indicates that a new distribution channel is likely to be used;
- so there is increased risk of mis-selling;
- or the product design not meeting the customers' needs.
- There could be poor servicing;
- e.g. benefit payments may be late or delayed;
- e.g. premiums may not be collected/registered correctly;
- e.g. customer queries may not be answered in a timely manner. 
- Administrative errors could be made;
- if staff are insufficiently trained.
- The company could mis-price the new product and overcharge customers.
- The company could over-estimate the potential anti-selection (due to having no underwriting) and overcharge customers.
- There could be complaints from customers who have survived so that premiums paid are close to, or exceed, the sum assured.
- The company could be accused of exploiting the lack of knowledge (or financial sophistication) of the target audience (information asymmetry). 
- The company might not keep pace with regulatory requirement changes;
- or with customer needs/market conditions;
- e.g. in relation to the benefit amounts.
- The company could change its strategy again shortly after launching the product (e.g. if annuity volumes pick up again);
- and it may not invest in looking after the few guaranteed over 50s policies that were sold.


**What other factors would need to be considered when designing and pricing the guaranteed product**
**Profitability**  
- The company needs to consider profitability.  
- The product will need to meet the company's defined profit criterion. 
- This might be in the form of a level of present value of profits;
- at the chosen risk discount rate;
- expressed as a percentage of sales volume.  
- Or a required return on capital.  
- Or a pay back period.  
- Capital measures are likely to be important due to high new business strain. 
- In order to test profitability, the company will need to make assumptions about future experience;
- particularly mortality rates;
- which would have to take into account the lack of underwriting;
- and the specific target market.
- Also expenses, investment returns, inflation, surrenders.
- Need to include a contribution to overheads.
- Start with best estimate assumptions.
- The company does not have any existing experience for this product;
- so may have to obtain external assistance;
- and increase the risk/pricing margins/include high margins.
- Model points would be required for the pricing exercise;
- reflecting expected age profile;
- and gender profile (if pricing according to gender is permitted in this country);
- and expected premium sizes;
- and an estimate of new business volumes.
- If the basis on which the company publicly reports its new business profitability differs from the chosen pricing basis, then it should also investigate the level of profitability under the reporting assumptions.  

**Marketability and competitiveness**
- The company will need to ensure that the product is attractive marketable;
- and that it is competitive.  
- It needs to identify the key competitors in this market;
- and investigate the features/price of their products.  
- The key will be to identify the direct marketing strategy that provides the highest volume of business for a given marketing spend.  
- Extensive market research may be needed;
- or a significant number of test pilots might be carried out.  
- It could adopt a similar strategy as market leaders in the market;
- and aim to compete on price.  
- It will need to decide on an advertising strategy. 
- The company might try to identify a niche market that it believes is untapped by competitors.  
- This might enable a higher premium to be charged than competitors; 
- but would also limit potential sales.  
- The company may need to test how sensitive the market is to price.  
- It may decide to compete on other areas e.g. servicing levels.
- Consider the competition's approach to underwriting to reduce anti-selection.  

**Suitability to meet customer needs for defined target market**
- The product should meet the customer needs.
- The main aim here is to provide value for money.  
- This becomes harder for those that survive a long period.
- This could be addressed by limiting the premium payment period;
- to a specified term;
- or to a specified age.  
- This would, however, increase the premium;
- which would make it less marketable.
- The company needs to decide whether to allow policyholders any flexibility if their needs change;
- e.g. to increase the sum assured for an additional premium.
- Need to consider existing customers as they may see worse service if resources are diverted to the new product. 
- The brand may not be known in this market.  
 
**Distribution method and remuneration**
- The company needs to decide which distribution method to use. 
- Direct marketing methods are likely to be used.  
- The company needs to determine the optimal use of the various direct marketing methods:  
	- TV/radio;
	- press;
	- magazine;
	- internet.
	- It may want to focus on generating leads to call centres.
	- The company would have to consider how to remunerate these call centre staff.
	- Commission or bonuses for sales are likely to increase sales.
	- But would also increase the risk of mis-selling.
	- There may be a marketing advantage to confirming non-incentivised sales staff. 

**Financing/capital requirements**
- The company needs to consider the financing capital requirements of the launch;
- and whether it has available sufficient capital;
- or whether it will have to raise more capital.
- Capital strain will increase if sales volumes are high.  
- It will need to meet the development costs; 
- and the ongoing upfront costs, which are likely to be high.  
- If the supervisory reserving basis is prudential, then there may be reserving costs in addition. 
- If the reserving is instead done on a best estimate basis, the initial reserves may be zero negative.
- But some additional solvency capital requirement is still likely to be needed.
- Overall, initial strain for this product is likely to be high.  
 
**Onerousness of any options or guarantees**
- The company needs to consider the onerousness/cost of the guarantees provided.  
- The premiums and benefits are guaranteed and are likely to be reasonably understood.  
- But the lack of flexibility may mean that the company should use higher pricing margins.  
 
**Sensitivity of profit**
- The company should test the sensitivity of profit;
- to changes in parameter;
- in order to assess the impact of parameter mis-estimation.  
- Profit is likely to be very sensitive to mortality assumptions.  
- Especially, the selective effect early on.  
- Profitability is also likely to be very sensitive to the levels of volumes (due to the development costs).  

**Extent of cross-subsidies**
- The company needs to consider the extent of any cross-subsidies.  
- In order to keep the product simple, the company might use the same premium rate for all sums assured  
- Which could result in cross-subsidies from large to small policies.
- However, due to the narrow range of sums assured permitted, there is less likely to be a significant difference in premium size;
- and so expense cross-subsidies are not likely to be significant.  
- Having premium rates differing by age (rather than age bands) and gender (if permitted) will also result in reduced cross-subsidies.  

**Administration systems**
- The company will have to consider the implications for its administration systems/IT systems/valuation systems;
- particularly whether the existing system can be adapted to use for this product.  
- The company will need to decide whether to develop a new system;
- or whether to outsource administration.  

**Service standards**
- The company will have to consider service standards  
- This is a relatively simple product and so providing a suitable service is not likely to be difficult.  
- However, the service standards would have to take into account the lack of financial sophistication of the target market;
- and that the target market is likely to be older.  
- Staff will have to be trained in administering the new product.
- New literature will have to be produced.  
- Illustration systems will need to be amended.  

**Company reputation and treating customers fairly**
- The company needs to ensure that it treats its customers fairly; 
- and that it maintains is reputation.
- The target market is potentially considered to be as a relatively vulnerable group.  
- Clear and non-misleading communications are key;
- especially pointing out that the death benefit may be lower than premiums paid.  
- Customers must not face unreasonable barriers to exit.  
- A surrender value approach needs to be set;
- which must be fair to those continuing and those surrendering.
- Similarly an approach to setting paid-up benefits needs to be determined.

**Reinsurance**  
- The company has limited its mortality risk through the sum assured range offered.  
- It is possible that the company might still consider reinsurance;
- in order to get expert advice on the market.
- If so it is likely to be coinsurance;
- on a quota share basis;
- in order to make it worthwhile for the reinsurer.  
- The cost of the reinsurance would need to be factored into the pricing.  

**Underwriting philosophy**
- In the absence of formal underwriting;
- the company should consider other approaches to limit the anti-selective effect;
- e.g. could consider reducing the sum assured in the first few years to, say, premiums paid (or a multiple).  

**Taxation, legal and regulatory constraints**
- Pricing needs to allow for the current tax rules.  
- The company may wish to ensure that the product is tax efficient  
- The new product may be taxed on a different basis to the existing product; 
- and compliant with legislation and regulation;
- e.g. restrictions on rating factors (such as gender);
- e.g. price caps. 
- Any known future changes to legislation/regulation should be taken into account.