<u><b>Q2(i)</u></b>
**What is the additional requirements that the financial advisors must now meet to enable them to sell the bond?**
**General**
- The new contract is a life insurance investment contract.
- Hence it will be subject to the requirements of the Retail Distribution Review.
- The existing term assurance product is not covered by the RDR, so the RDR requirements are all "additional".

**Qualifications**
- Advisers must have obtained stringent qualification requirements before being able to provide advice on investment products.

**Capital Adequacy**
- Adviser firms must have a certain level of capital adequacy;
- i.e. holding three months of expenditure in realisable assets.

**Remuneration**
- Commission is not permitted on investment products.
- Instead, there is a more transparent requirement whereby policyholders pay explicit amounts;
- via fees.
- Given this is a product sold to individuals and not to groups;
- the remuneration will be via adviser charging;
- rather than consultancy charging.
- The level of remuneration will be agreed between adviser and policyholder.
- The fee is explicitly deducted from a policyholder's fund or premium.
- The timing of payments to advisers must coincide with payments from policyholders
- Paying a lump sum to the advisor in lieu of future payments (factoring) in not permitted.
- Given this is a single premium product, this would imply that deductions would be made from the initial premium.
- There may be payments based on the value of investments (i.e. unit fund value).

**Advice**
- The RDR sets out four types of advice that can be offered by financial advisers.
- Policyholders must be told what level of advice they are being given.
- Basic advice only applies to stakeholder pensions;
- so is not appropriate here.
- Simplified advice is for customers with relatively straightforward needs;
- delivered through a decision tree process;
- so is unlikely to be appropriate for the new investment product.
- Restricted advice is a fuller level of advice;
- but is given by advisers who only recommend products from a limited number of firms, products or funds.
- This could be relevant for this single premium bond.
- Independent advice is full advice, where an adviser can recommend product from the whole market;
- advice must be based on comprehensive and fair analysis of the relevant market;
- and must be unbiased and unrestricted.
- This level of advice will be relevant for this product.
- Financial advisers may offer different levels of advice on the new product to different clients.

<u><b>Q2(ii)</u></b>
**How the two products sold by the company would be classified under IFRS?**
- Under IFRS, the term assurance is classified as an insurance product;
- under IFRS4;
- as it has significant insurance risk.
- The unit-linked bond will be classified as an investment product;
- because the additional death benefit of 1% of units is not considered significant.
- As a result is measured under IAS18 and IAS 39.

<u><b>Q2(iii)</u></b>
**What is the comparison between the two accounting approaches under IFRS?**
- The assets held for both products will be measured at current market value;
- and will not be subject to any admissibility requirements.

**Liability valuation**
- The liabilities for the term assurance under "Old UK GAAP" will be derived from those calculated under Solvency I regulations;
- any excess prudence may be removed;
- and any reserves held in respect of general contingencies are not likely to be included.
- For the unit-linked bonds, the cashflows arising are separated into an investment management services component;
- measured in accordance with IAS 18.
- And a financial instrument component;
- measured in accordance with IAS 39;
- i.e.at fair value;
- i.e. with liabilities valued as the value of units.

**Deferred acquisition costs**
- For insurance contracts (i.e. the term assurances);
- a deferred acquisition cost (DAC) asset may be held;
- if the initial strain due to acquisition expenses;
- is expected to be recovered from profits to be obtained in subsequent accounting periods.
- When DAC is established it is written down gradually (amortised);
- over the period in which it is expected to be recovered.
- It is likely to be amortised at a rate commensurate with the pattern of margin emergence.
- For investment contracts a form of DAC for commission type expenses is allowed.

<u><b>Q2(iv)</u></b>
**What are the likely implications on the SCR when launching the new products?**
The impact depends on the level of sales.

**Market risk module**  
- There is likely to be very little current market risk in relation to term assurances for the company.
- The market risk components of the SCR will increase due to the new product;
- given that the value of future income from the bonds will be reliant on the annual management charge;
- which is directly related to the value of the unit-linked funds.
- The level of increase in the sub components of market risk will be dependent on the make up of the unit-linked funds.
- Equity risk will rise.
- Property risk will increase if there is any property within the funds.
- Credit spread risk will increase if corporate bonds are held within the funds | Interest rate risk will move to the extent to which there are fixed interest stocks in the funds.
- Currency risk will increase;
- if the currency of the funds underlying the annual management charges is different from the currency of the expenses incurred.
- Concentration risk may increase;
- depending on how diversified the funds are.

**Life underwriting risk module**  
**Persistency risk sub-module**  
- There will be an element of persistency risk currently with the term assurance policies.
- This is likely to increase materially;
- due to the need to allow for the risk of high future withdrawals from the new product.  
- Given that withdrawals will reduce the value of future ames.

**Expense risk sub-module**
- There will be some significant expense risk already from the term assurance;
- given these ordinarily have guaranteed premiums.
- The new product will also have an expense risk;
- since the expenses are likely to have a fixed element (i.e. are not directly linked to the unit fund value, like the charges are).
- It is not clear whether the fund charges are guaranteed or variable at the company's discretion.
- If variable, this would reduce that additional risk.

**Mortality risk sub-module**
- This will be the key risk under term assurances;
- but is not a significant risk under the bonds;
- hence a small increase to the SCR for this sub-module.

**Counterparty default risk module**
- There may be some additional counterparty default risk if corporate bonds a held in unit-linked funds;
- but there is unlikely to be a significant change to this element of the SCR;
- particularly if it currently mainly reflects reinsurance default risk e.g. IFAs (any example).

**Operational risk module**
- The level of operational risk under the standard formula is based on percentages of earned premiums and technical provisions.
- These are likely to be higher under unit-linked bonds than under term assurance;
- and hence the operational risk element of SCR will likely increase;
- materially

**Aggregation**
- The new product is likely to introduce additional diversifications between risks;
- so whilst overall the SCR will increase;
- the overall impact on the SCR will not be as significant as the sum of the standalone impacts for each risk module
- There is unlikely to be any adjustment for the loss absorbing capacity of technical provisions at present;
- and this is likely to remain the case.

<u><b>Q2(v)</u></b>
**What are the likely implications on the SCR when launching the new products?**
- The selling of term assurances and investment bonds is treated differently following RDR.
- Sales of term assurances were not impacted by RDR;
- and it may be that IFAs who sold those are not permitted to sell investment bonds.
- The customers buying the two products are likely to have different reasons for doing so;
- e.g. term assurance for protection of dependants;
- e.g. investment bonds for savings and potential future inheritance.
- Hence may be difficult to find reasons for customers to buy both.
- And may be very different target markets.
- If they require protection, then they may not have a lump sum to invest.
- If they have savings, they may not need protection.
- Need to be careful to avoid situations where products are cross-sold to customers without fully understanding their needs;
- or without treating them fairly.
- There are likely to be a number of term assurance policyholders who no longer actively deal with their original IFA (orphan clients);
- or the original IFA may no longer be in business.
- Contact with existing customers, in terms of purchasing new products, is likely to be via IFAs.
- So the company may have limited opportunity to pursue cross-selling opportunities.
- If the company contacts customers directly, this could damage existing relationships with distributors.
- Selling through IFAs requires both products to be competitive in the marketplace;
- otherwise IFA would find it difficult to place business with the company.
- Data protection legislation may be an issue.

<u><b>Q2(vi)</u></b>
**What actions could the company take to increase cross-selling?**
- Ensure that those IFAs who are only now able to sell term assurances are encouraged to meet the required qualifications and requirements.
- Ensure that IFAs only sell where they have adequately understood customer needs.
- Perhaps consider redesigning the term product offering
- Provide sales training;
- and clear documentation.
- Company will need to understand how to contact the orphan clients without breaking any agreements with IFAs.
- Company would need to work with IFAs in publicising its new product
- May want to consider multiple product discounts.
- May need to consult with (or get advice from) any reinsurers.
- The company may want to invest in advertising in order to promote the company brand;
- to the general public;
- and directly to IFAs.
- Alternatively through sponsorship.
- May decide to improve customer service (this may be used as a differentiator when discussing products with IFAs)
- Consider how the investment bond could be designed to be consistent with the target market for the protection product.

<u><b>Q2(vii)</u></b>
**What adjustments the company might need to make to its data to enable customer value to be determined?**
- Cashflow models used for embedded value and Solvency II are likely to be on a policy by policy rather than customer basis;
- or they may be on a grouped model point basis.
- Hence need to adapt in-force data inputs to identify customers / to identify policies already sold to the same customers.
- Similarly would want to consider whether data from historic experience investigations can be adapted to reflect customer rather than policy;
- particularly for persistency data;
- and potentially mortality data.
- May want to get additional data on customers to enable customer segmentation;
- e.g. IFA;
- location/postcode;
- occupation;
- income;
- underwriting data.

<u><b>Q2(viii)</u></b>
**How might the company use its existing calculations to determine value for an individual customer?**
- The company needs to consider what metric to use.
- Customer value could be monitored purely from persistency rates;
- but the implication here is that something more sophisticated is required.
- Customer value may typically also be based on embedded value measures.
- However, under Solvency II there is no longer a present value of future profits (or PVIF) element;
- as it has been replaced by best estimate (rather than prudent) liabilities (BEL).
- For term assurance the BEL is likely to be negative early on indicating a value to the company from future profits under the policy.
- However, the BEL will vary over the term of the policy; 
- as mortality risk increases, and premium remains fixed.
- Would also need to incorporate the release of the SCR; 
- and risk margin;
- hence would require a methodology to determine that release profile/
- Alternatively may want to calculate an explicit PVIF;
- using prudent reserves used under IFRS reporting;
- and the PVIF would effectively be the release of the prudent margins over time
- The company may want to split the assumptions using customer segmentation;
- particularly for persistency;
- could also do adaptations for mortality assumptions.
- This would require some adaptation of any cashflow model to allow for this.
- The value calculation should include profits arising from the expectation of multiple future policy purchases.
- Taking into account customers' changing needs over their lifetime.
- Perhaps by using available underwriting data
- Neither IFRS or Solvency II Pillar 1 allows for future new business;
- so either method would need further adjustment for that element.
- This would need to be done by estimating future purchasing patterns based on past experience
- or using wider industry data / advice.