<u><b>Q1(i)</u></b>
**What are the factors that contribute to each of the undiversified SCR?**
**Equity Risk**
- Equity risk will be driven by the unit linked business.
- Equity risk is unlikely to affect the annuity portfolio as closely matched with fixed-interest assets;
- and equities would not be allowed in the matching adjustment portfolio. 
- The risk arises when equities fall, and charges on the unit linked contracts reduce.
- Which increases the BEL under stress.  
- Any surplus funds invested in equity will also reduce in an equity stress.

**Property Risk**
- Property risk will be driven by the unit linked business.
- Since properties would not be allowed in the matching adjustment portfolio. 
- The risk arises when property values fall, and charges on the unit linked contracts reduce.
- Which increases the BEL under stress. 
- Any surplus funds invested in property will also reduce in a property stress. 
- The outcome is likely to be smaller for property than for equities, as the property holding is likely to me smaller.

**Yield Curve/risk free**
- An increase in the yield curve rates results in annuity BEL reducing.
- The value of fixed interest assets backing the annuities will also reduce. 
- As these are well matched there should not be a significant impact from the annuity business.
- However it could be that assets reduce by more than the BEL if there is some mismatch which could contribute to the capital.
- For the unit-linked business the impact on the charges will depend on their form (monetary or percentage of funds). 
- If they are percentage of funds, then their value will be unchanged.
- The value of charges less expenses will be discounted at a higher rate and this will result in a decrease in the BEL.
- This is will contribute to the undiversified SCR.
- Any surplus funds invested in fixed interest will also reduce as yields increase

**Credit spreads**
- An increase in spreads will reduce the value of assets.
- It is likely that there are significant bonds in the annuity matching adjustment portfolio.
- Not all of the spread will feed through to the BEL discount rate under stress.
- Hence much of the SCR in respect of credit spreads will come from the annuity business.
- Any surplus funds invested in fixed interest will also reduce as spreads widen.

**Counterparty**
- This is very small, as not much exposure to counterparties; 
- as no reinsurance or derivative use.
- For example: custodian services or administration outsourcing.

**Expenses and expense inflation**
- Expense risk will be driven by expenses both in respect of annuities and unit linked liabilities.
- Company is exposed to expense risk if it is not able to vary policyholder charges as expenses vary.
- Similarly for expense inflation.

**Persistency**
- This is the risk of the unit linked policyholders will surrender their policies which results in reduced income from charges.
- The firm writes large volumes of unit-linked business so this is a material risk

**Mass Lapse**
- This is the risk of the unit linked policyholders will surrender their policies which results in reduced income from charges.
- For example, fixed costs may not be covered by charges.

**Longevity**
- This is the risk that the annuity policyholders live longer than expected.
- This may also include the risk that the base assumption is too high.
- The large volume of annuities will result in high longevity risk; 
- as the longevity risk is not hedged.

**Mortality**
- There is a small death benefit risk on the unit linked business which is driving this SCR.

**Operational Risk**
- This is based on the standard formula and as such is based on a percentage of earned premiums;
- and technical provisions.

<u><b>Q1(ii)</u></b>
**What are the factors to consider when justifying ability to make profits in stressed scenarios?**
- The company will need to justify being able to sell new business after a 1:200 event;
- at the levels assumed;
- and at the level of profitability assumed.
- Under the biting scenario, equities are expected to fall.
- Justification would therefore need to be made as to why people would but unit-linked products when markets are low.
- The profits would also need to take account of the stresses applied to expenses and lapses.

<u><b>Q1(iii)</u></b>
**What other factors could be used to cover the loss absorbing factor for deferred tax?**
- The loss absorbing capacity of deferred taxes could, for example, include a reduction in any base balance sheet deferred tax liability;
- as this would no longer be fully payable in a stressed scenario. 
- Profits from previous years can be used to offset losses.

<u><b>Q1(iv)</u></b>
**Why interest rates and separately mortality have positive undiversified SCR and negative diversified SCR?**
- Interest rates rising results in more capital required pre-diversification as in isolation this stress is onerous for the firm.
- Similarly, mortality worsening results in more capital required pre-diversification as higher mortality results in fewer UL policies on the books, and lower charges received.
- Post diversification the capital required from each of these stresses is negative due to diversification:
	- Mortality worsening has a negative correlation with longevity (i.e. people living longer is more onerous for annuities)
	- Interest rates up has a negative correlation with other market stresses.
	- Interest rates up has a negative correlation with other non-market stresses.

<u><b>Q1(v)</u></b>
**Which risks are the most significant?**
- The dominant risks are equity;
- credit spreads; and
- longevity.
- Since these give the highest diversified capital.

<u><b>Q1(vi)</u></b>
**What are the impact of each of the sensitivities on the undiversified SCR and on own funds?**
**Increase in interest rates:**
**Impact on SCR**
- **Equity Risk** 
- There will be no impact on the SCR in respect of any surplus assets held in equities;
- the projection rate and discount rate for unit linked charges will be higher;
- this would have minimal impact on the equity stress in relation to the unit linked charges since the fund is rolled up and discounted at the same rate.
- **Spreads**
- The spread SCR is the difference between the change in assets and liabilities after an increase in spreads.
- An increase in interest rates reduces the value of fixed-interest assets on the balance sheet;
- and so this reduces the spread stress on fixed-interest assets.
- The reduction in liabilities is also less as the liabilities start from a smaller starting position;
- but this is a smaller impact than assets due to matching adjustment restrictions.
- So overall the SCR reduces
- **Longevity**
- SCR reduces;
- as the liabilities have reduced with the higher yield curve.
- Overall the SCR reduces

**Impact on own funds:**
- The value of any surplus fixed interest assets will fall;
- this will decrease the own funds.
- The decrease in the value of annuity liabilities goes down due to the higher discount rate; 
- which is broadly offset by the reduction in matching assets; 
- so no material impact on the own funds.
- Unit linked assets and unit liabilities are unaffected;
- but projected charges may be higher as the yield curve increases;
- this is offset by the increased discount rate;
- but expenses are also discounted at a higher rate
- so own funds increase.
- The components of the SCR driving the risk margin is unlikely to change;
- since interest rates are unlikely to contribute to the non-hedgeable risks.
- However the discount rate used in the calculation of the risk margin will increase;
- which will reduce the risk margin and increase own funds;
- potentially significantly.
- Overall the impact depends on the relative impact on the surplus assets, risk margin, and unit linked TP;
- but since the undiversified interest rate stress is an upward stress, the own funds are likely to reduce.

**Increase in equities:**
**Impact on SCR:**
- **Equity Risk**
- The SCR will increase;
- due to there being higher exposure to equities.
- There may be a second order impact if this data impacts the calibration of the stress, the direction would depend on the company's calibration assumptions.
- **Spreads** 
- There will be no material impact on the spread stress;
- since fixed interest assets are unaffected.
- **Longevity**
- There will be no impact on this stress;
- since the annuity liabilities are not backed by equities.
- Overall the SCR is likely to increase.

**Impact on own funds:**
- The value of any surplus equities will increase;
- this will increase the own funds.
- There will be no impact on the annuity liabilities or matching assets.
- Unit linked assets and unit liabilities both increase and offset (so there is no impact on own funds);
- but projected charges will be higher;
- due to higher unit values;
- so the BEL will reduce;
- so own funds increase.
- The risk margin is unlikely to change;
- since equities are unlikely to contribute to the risk margin Overall we would expect the OF to increase.

**High lapse:**
**Impact on SCR:**
- **Equity Risk** 
- This will reduce;
- since there are fewer equities (once sold) held due to the lapses.
- **Spreads**
- No impact as this did not affect the annuity business.
- **Longevity**
- No impact as this did not affect the annuity business.
- Overall the SCR reduces

**Impact on own funds:**
- Unit linked assets and unit liabilities both fall by the same amount;
- but projected charges less expenses will be lower due to there being fewer policies in force;
- this decreases own funds.
- The risk margin will decrease due to the lower SCR (increase OF);
- since the risk margin is based in insurance risks;
- and the risk margin can be released for policies no longer in force 
- Any surrender profits would increase OF.
- Overall the OF could increase or reduce depending on the relative sizes of the above effects.

<u><b>Q1(vii)</u></b>
**What actions can the company take in response to large increase in lapses?**
- The company may increase its best estimate assumption.
- It may also change its SCR calibration;
- as this event could invalidate the assumed 1:200 stress.
- Alternatively the company may wait to see whether this is a one off event.
- The company may perform an investigation into whether other Group Schemes are at risk of lapsing.
- This could involve analysing the various Scheme's charges against competitor's charges;
- or contacting Schemes to discuss whether they are happy with the terms.
- Any analysis would consider any surrender penalties.
- The company is likely to consider retention activities or improvements to product design.

<u><b>Q1(viii)</u></b>
**What are the types of operational risks that now need to be considered?**
- This is the risk of loss, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes;
- people;
- and systems, or;
- from external events;
- the risk of mis-pricing;
- transactional processing failures;
- poor service standards;
- leading to reduced new business;  
- administrative errors;
- such as unit-pricing errors. 
- For the annuity business this will include inadequate analysis of in-force business.
- For Group Pension products, the risks to the insurer will be similar, in principle, to those for individual personal pensions;
- except that in addition, there will be the particular risks that administration may prove more complicated;
- and expensive than expected;
- and the sales process may be more at risk to the possibility of mis-selling. 
- Also, the insurer may also end up with greater concentrations of risk in certain areas;
- and industries than if it had sold just individual personal pension business.
- More general issues are fraud;
- inadequate models;
- and regulatory/tax changes