<u><b>Q1(i)</u></b>
**What is the role of the PRA and TCA in transfer of liabilities?**
- The PRA is concerned with the prudential management of companies (i.e. safety and soundness).
- The FCA is concerned with the conduct of companies in the financial markets, including fair treatment of customers.
- Both are concerned in ensuring appropriate degree of protection for customers.
- The PRA approves or nominates the independent expert.
- The PRA approves the form of the report of the scheme of transfer;
- and approves the form of the policyholder notice.
- The FCA consults on these forms;
- but the PRA takes the leading role.
- Both may be heard by the Court.

<u><b>Q1(ii)</u></b>
**What are the concerns of the regulators and policyholders in respect of the transfer?**
**Regulators**
- The PRA would be concerned about capital protection for all groups of policyholders.
- The regulators will be concerned with any risk management issues, such as increased operational risk.
- The regulators will want to ensure that all affected customers receive appropriate communication.

**Policyholders of Company A**
- Policyholders of Company A would want the company to demonstrate it has capital available to support the purchased policies;
- without adversely affecting the security of their benefits.
- This would be under current conditions and stressed scenarios.

**Policyholders of the policies being purchased**
- It may be interested in the proposed assumptions for capital calculations;
- and how these compare to those used by Company B.
- Both regulators would be concerned whether Company A had sufficient expertise to manage the transferred business.
- The FCA would be concerned with fair treatment of the policyholders of the policies being purchased.
- Including meeting TCF principles.
- This would include policy terms they get from Company A being no worse than those with Company B.
- This would include charges being no more than those in the current policies;
- and product features being the same or better
- The choice of funds should be similar (or wider).
- The level of service provided should be of at least the same standard.
- Application of discretion should be similar to that in Company B.

**Remaining policyholders of Company B**
- The regulators may also be concerned with competition regulation.
- And whether the purchase of these policies leaves Company A in a dominant position in the group pensions market.
- The regulators may be concerned that the remaining policyholders of Company B may be worse off;
- due to, for example, the loss of cross subsidies.

<u><b>Q1(iii)</u></b>
**What actions can be taken to address the regulator's concern?**
**Solvency assessment**
- Company A should prepare estimates of what its balance sheet or ORSA would look like post-purchase.
- including its ability to meet solvency capital requirements,
- on a base scenario,
- and also under some stress/adverse scenarios.
- Consider de-risking if capital is an issue. 
- It should also ask Company B to do this for its remaining business.

**Product management**
- Company A will need to obtain information from Company B on the details of the products;
- and the level of charges.
- It could continue these with no change;
- or it could improve them (e.g. reduce charges).
- Company A may look to revise the way the products are structured;
- e.g. the small schemes could be converted to individual policies to lower the admin cost;
- or put into one large group scheme.
- Company A may need to continue to offer the original range of unit funds,
- or it could combine them with existing funds if this does not restrict the choice.
- The company needs to replicate all product features.
- It needs to ensure that the discounts available on the executive product for higher fund sizes continue 
- And that the loyalty bonus is still be paid on the medium-sized employer product;
- despite the policies technically no longer remaining with Company B.
- To reproduce these features, it may need to build new systems functionality.
- Or outsource the administration of the policies to a company which can replicate the features.
- Or buy the customers out of the features during the transfer.

**Service standards**
- The company needs to obtain details on the service standards promised by Company B 
- And then amend its own standards accordingly, if required.
- It will need to provide training to its existing staff on the new products.
- Or it may be possible to transfer staff from Company B. 
- The higher level of administration provided to the small employer pension product should continue.
- The company needs to obtain information on how Company B has applied discretion / interpreted terms and conditions.
- For example, for the pension contribution protection benefit it needs to ensure that it does not apply a stricter definition of the medical evidence that is required.
- If any of the annual management charges are variable;
- it should aim to continue past practice in terms of how frequently they are changed.
- The company could point out that these products are currently closed to new business and so the purchase is not affecting the current market.
- It could also do some analysis to show the before and after market share of pensions policies.

**Others**
- The company should discuss issues with the regulators.
- The plans for the transfer of business should be shared. 
- For example, plans to transfer the business in stages.

<u><b>Q1(iv)</u></b>
**What factors to take into account to determine additional value for transfer of assets?**
- Company A will want to make a profit (or not make a loss).  
- This may be included as an explicit margin within the additional amount.
- But there could also be profit implicit within the technical provisions In order to assess this, it may wish to recalculate the technical provisions using different methods or on a different set of assumptions;  
- i.e. factoring in the expected new assumptions once the business is with Company A;
- e.g. new expense levels;
- which may take advantage of synergies/economies of scale within Company A.
- Commercial considerations, for example cross-sell opportunities.  
- Different expected earnings (relative to EIOPA rules) or volatility adjustment.
- May wish to adjust for contract boundaries;
- or lost transitional arrangements.
- And any tax synergies.
- And any capital synergies from diversification.  
- And any expected persistency impact as a result of the transfer.  
- Any expected improvements to benefits/charges should also be taken into consideration in the analysis  
- The company may potentially require an additional amount to cover the cost of holding capital for other (i.e. hedgeable) risks which are not included in the risk margin calculation. 
- The shareholders may have a different view of risk/risk appetite than that allowed for in the Solvency II risk margin.
- Company A may wish to receive a higher amount if it has concerns about data quality.
- Company A should take account of the cost of undertaking the transaction.
- Including the cost of developing its systems;
- and the legal support required.
- The acceptable amount may also be influenced by whether there are any other interested bidders;
- and whether Company B is a willing seller or not;
- and prices of any other recent transactions.
- Company A will also consider whether there are any other opportunities available in the market;
- or alternative uses of its capital.
- Nature and quality of assets being transferred from B to A as part of transfer of liabilities to A.

<u><b>Q1(v)</u></b>
**What changes the government could make to the pensions tax regime?**
**Tax and product design**
- Changes could increase or reduce tax (or tax relief).
- Changes could remove specific features completely.
- Changes could introduce new features/
- Changes may only affect certain groups of policyholders (for example, Executive Pension arrangements or those with small/large holdings).

**Contributions**  
- Tax relief on the pension contributions could be changed.
- The annual allowance (maximum pensions contributions in a year) could be changed.
- The facility to carry forward unused annual allowances could be changed
- The annual allowance tapering could be changed.
- Rules relating to tax relief on employer contributions could be changed.

**Benefits**
- The tax-free amount allowed to be taken could be changed.
- The way in which pension income is taxed could be changed.
- The lifetime allowance could be changed.
- The rate at which the lifetime allowance increases each year could be changed.
- The tax rate applicable to funds in excess of the lifetime allowance could be changed.
- Taxation of death benefits or on inheritance could be changed.
- The taxation arrangements may be changed for certain products such as income drawdown.

**Investment**
- The way in which investments held by pension funds are taxed could be changed.
- The list of tax exempt assets could be changed  

**Company taxation**
- Pensions business may no longer be taxed on a trading profits approach.
- It may no longer be taxable at corporate tax rates.
- The definition of taxable trading profit could be changed.

<u><b>Q1(vi)</u></b>
**What is the impact of changes on tax regime on policyholder behaviour?**
- If tax relief on contributions (or the extent of contribution allowances) is made more generous or increased, this could encourage policyholders (or employees) to increase their contributions.
- If the relief is reduced, limited or removed this could encourage policyholder to reduce their contributions.
- Changes in, for example, the tax free amount may affect when people choose to retire.
- Or any changes to the way death benefits are taxed may affect their inheritance tax planning.
- Though the impact of this would depend how many policyholders were impacted by the change or any limit imposed.
- Given that policyholders are likely to want to continue to save for retirement;
- the impact of any reduction or removal would depend on the attractiveness of alternatives, such as ISAs, to do this.
- Changes to employer tax relief rules may result in the employer paying different levels of contributions;
- which may affect the level that employees wish to contribute if employer contributions are matched.  
- The impact on policyholder behaviour of changes to taxation on benefits would be similar as for tax relief on contribution changes;
- but likely to a lesser extent;
- given that the actual policyholder impact of such a change is not seen until retirement;
- compared to immediate impact of tax relief changes.  
- The impact also depends on the alternatives available to provide retirement income.
- The impact of changes to how the investments in pension funds are taxed may be even less.
- As policyholders may not be so aware of these rules.
- It may affect the type of assets that policyholders invest in.  
- If changes to company taxation result in changes to prices/charges; 
- then this could affect propensity to purchase products  
- Uncertainty around the arrangements may make people defer investment decisions.  
- It may change the timing of accumulation/de-accumulation.
- It may also encourage more people to take advice.
- It may affect the form of the benefits taken.
- There may be greater levels of transfer out or paid up.
- Alternatives to investing for retirement may seem more attractive (e.g. holidays).

<u><b>Q1(vii)</u></b>
**What is the impact of changes on tax regime on policyholder behaviour?**
**Systems**
- The company may need to change its systems to be able to comply with the new tax rules.
- Depending on the change this might be a simple parameter change or it might be more extensive.
- Changes to systems increases operational risk.
- There will be a cost of making such changes.

**Volumes and profitability**  
- There is likely to be an impact of the volume (or level) of contributions.
- For the group schemes, the impact could be on contributions from both employees and employer.
- The extent of this depends on which element of the tax regime is changed an how it is changed.
- At an extreme, the pension products may all transfer or become paid-up.
- The change in contribution level will impact the profitability of products And may change expenses;
- depending on the cost of administering contributions.
- Due to fixed costs;
- higher contributions are likely to increase the profitability of products (or vice versa).  
- And would result in lower non-unit reserves (or vice versa)  
- If the tax changes are to the corporate taxation of pensions, then this will have a direct impact on profit  
- The company may wish to change its charges/pricing.
- Although this may not be possible for existing business.
- The company may wish to hold more capital for the uncertainty.
- There may also be an impact on the potential to sell new pensions/schemes.

**Customer service**  
- There is likely to be an increase in the volume of customer queries;
- as they want to understand the impact on them.
- The company will need to have the resource levels;
- and skill set / training to reply to these queries.
- There may also be additional demand on customer services if the method of changing contribution levels is not automated.

**Other products**  
- The changes may make other products look more attractive for retirement savings.
- This could lead to increased demand for those products.
- If the company does not already offer these products, it may want to conside developing them to ensure it does not lose money to competitors.
- The company would consider what competitors are doing as a result of the changes.
- The extent of the impact could also depend on the distribution channel used.
- The existing post retirement products may become inviable.

**Other**  
- Literature and annual statements may need to be changed.
- If the changes are material, then there will be major change within the company leading to management distraction.
- Staff may need to be reallocated.
- Salesforce may need re-training.
- Adverse changes may increase competition (for example lower charges) to attract more business.
- Increased withdrawals may make the company a forced seller of assets.
- Ultimately, it may impact on the company's share price and credit rating.