<u><b>Q1(i): What is a matching adjustment?</b></u>
- A matching adjustment is an adjustment made by insurers to the discount rate to reflect the liquidity component of the credit spread on assets held.
- It can be used where insurers have long-term predictable liabilities and can hold matching assets to maturity;
- and so they are not exposed to the risk of changing spreads on these assets from the liquidity component of the spread risk, although they are still exposed to the default component.
- The addition of this matching adjustment must be approved by the regulator.
- The matching adjustment is derived by taking the spread on the portfolio of matching assets and deducting the 'fundamental spread' which is published by EIOPA.
- There are strict requirements in relation to the eligibility of the assets and liabilities. It may therefore only apply to a specific portfolio of assets and liabilities.

<u><b>Q1(ii): What is the difference between required capital and available capital?</b></u>
**Required capital**
- This is the capital required to support the business.
- In the context of Solvency II, the required capital can be thought of the Solvency Capital Requirement.
- This represents the level of assets required in excess of liabilities;
- so that policyholder claims (or shareholder requirements) can be met with a high degree of certainty when they fall due.
- It also includes the Minimum Capital Requirement (MCR).

**Available capital**
- This is the amount of cpaital a company has to meet the required capital.
- In the context of Solvency II, the available capital is referred to as 'own funds'.
- Available capital is the difference between the value of assets and liabilities.
- For a proprietary, it is the measure of the shareholder's capital currently invested in the company.
- Solvency II 'own funds' is the amount of assets in excess of technical provisions and other liabilities.

<u><b>Q1(iii): What is the impact on required capital, available capital, and capital margin?</b></u>
**(a) Increase in the value of equities**
**Required Capital**
- An increase in the equity value will increase the amount of assets stressed under the equity risk sub-module within the SCR;
- resulting in an increase in the required capital.
- The level of increase in the SCR would be mitigated by any change in the diversification benefit within the market risk module and by any change in the diversification benefit between the market and other risk modules.

**Available capital**
- Any equity investments held by the company would increase in value;
- resulting in an increase in the available capital.
- The risk margin will not be impacted as equity risk is a hedgeable risk.
- Regarding the BEL, the unit-linked fund liabilities should be matched so there would be no impact.
- However, increased unit fund values would decrease non-unit fund liabilities; 
- due to increased charges.
- This will lead to an increase in available capital.

**Capital margin**
- This would be expected to increase;
- as the increase in the required capital is likely to be lower than the increase in the available capital.

**(b) Increase in the maintenance expenses**
**Required capital**
- If this leads to an increase in the expense assumption;
- this will likely increase the best estimate liability (BEL). 
- This will increase the SCR (i.e. required capital). 
- The expense risk sub-module within the life underwriting risk module will increase. 
- The SCR will increase as the proportionate stress will be made to a higher expense assumption.
- The level of increase in SCR would be mitigated by any change in the diversification benefit within the life underwriting risk module and by any change in the diversification benefit between the life underwriting and other risk modules.

**Available capital**
- There will be no impact on the value of assets. 
- The risk margin will increase as a percentage of the SCR increase. 
- This, along with the increase in the BEL, will reduce the available capital.

**Capital margin** 
- Overall, the capital margin will fall;
- as available capital will fall and required capital will increase 

**(c) Credit spreads widening on corporate bonds**
**Required capital**
- A widening of credit spreads will reduce the market value of the corporate bonds;
- leading to a fall in the spread risk sub-module of the SCR.
- There is therefore a fall in the required capital.
- The capital required under the spread risk sub-module is impacted by the market value of the bonds affected by the credit spread. 
- The change in SCR would be mitigated by any change in the diversification benefit within the market risk module and by any change in the diversification benefit between the market risk and other risk modules. 

**Available capital** 
- The available capital will reduce by the reduction in the market value of the corporate bonds.
- However, the impact will be reduced by the fall in the BEL; 
- due to an increased matching adjustment. 
- The available capital will reduce as the market value of corporate bonds would reduce by more than the fall in BEL.
- The extent of the fall in BEL from the increased matching adjustment will depend upon how much of the widening is due to increased liquidity risk and how much from increased default risk;
- and the extent of the increase reflected in the fundamental spread published by EIOPA.
- The matching adjustment is only applicable to a proportion of the company's business, so is unlikely to completely match the impact to the assets from the credit spreads widening. 
- Where the matching adjustment does not apply, there will be no impact to the liabilities. 
- However a volatility adjustment could apply, in which case the BEL could reduce.
- The risk margin will not change due to the SCR change, as spread risk is a hedgeable risk.

**Capital margin**
- Overall, the capital margin is likely to fall; as
- the fall in market value is likely to exceed the benefit from the matching adjustment and reduction in SCR. 
- This is because the matching adjustment and the SCR spread stress each relate to only part of the credit spread.

**(d) Increased risk of default from reinsurance counterparties**
**Required capital**
- The increased risk of reinsurer default will potentially impact the default risk module of the SCR;
- depending on whether the credit rating is lowered as a result.
- If the credit rating is lowered, this will result in an increase in the default risk module capital requirement. 
- A lower credit rating will increase the stress applied and therefore increase the SCR.
- Overall, it would be expected that the required capital would increase.
- If the credit rating is not altered, then the capital held against the default risk module will not change. 
- Any increase will be dampened by any collateral agreements in place.
- The higher the collateral, the lower the increase.
- The level of increase in SCR would be mitigated by any change in the diversification benefit within the default risk module and by any change in the diversification benefit between the default risk and other risk modules.

**Available capital** 
- The BEL would be unaffected. 
- Reinsurance recoveries are shown as assets on the Solvency II regulatory balance sheet, as opposed to a reduction of liabilities. 
- The value of the assets would fall, due to the adjustment that would be made for the higher risk of default.
- The risk margin would increase if the default risk module capital requirement of the SCR increases.
- Overall, the available capital will fall. 

**Capital margin**
- Overall, the capital margin will fall;
- as the available capital would reduce and the required capital would increase.

<u><b>Q1(iv)</b></u>
**Why would a company want a lower capital margin?**
- The current margin may be too high relative to the company's risk appetite.
- The cost of raising capital may be perceived as too high.
- The current level of free capital within the business may be high relative to the rest of the market.
- Having a low capital margin improves return on capital employed.
- By reducing the capital margin, the company will be able to declare higher dividends;
- but for a limited period.
- The company may wish to spend the capital on strategic projects;
- such as efficiency improvements;
- or mergers and acquisitions.
- This could improve profitabiliuty;
- and so be attractive to shareholders.
- There may be tax efficiencies by keeping a low capital margin.
- There may be profitable new business propositions which require capital investment.
- The company may be working to a low capital margin as part of a group target.

<u><b>Q1(v)</b></u>
**What are the risks from having a lower capital margin?**
- Having a lower capital margin will mean less working capital in the company;
- and so less capital to invest in hope of higher returns.

**Credit rating agencies**
- It may be difficult to raise capital for projects;
- due to credit rating agencies downgrading the company's credit rating.

**Distributors**
- It may become difficult to sell products due to reluctance from distributors to place business with a company in a weak capital position;
- reducing future new business.

**The regulator**
- The company will be exposed to greater risk of insufficient capital to cover supervisory requirements if experience turns out to be adverse. 
- This may attract closer scrutiny by the regulator.
-  Management may not be able to manage the company as it would like to, given the extra regulatory scrutiny.
- If the regulator was concerned with the solvency position of the company, it could impose limits on new business, or could request that the company sells off parts of the business, for example.

**Investors/analysts**
- The company could be perceived as weak.
- Investors may be concerned that they will receive less dividends in the future.
- Investors may be concerned that shareholders may have to provide extra capital. 
- As such, the company may be exposed to a hostile takeover;
- following a possible fall in the share price.

**Policyholders**
- Customers may be concerned and surrender their policies;
- reducing future profits. 
- Falling new business and increasing withdrawals may also result in the company being unable to cover its fixed costs; 
- and overheads. 

**Other**
- The company may not be able to meet its economic capital requirements. 
- There is less investment freedom to earn potentially higher returns. 
- The company's auditors may not be happy to sign-off on the company being a going concern.