<u><b>Q1(i): What are the factors to consider when assessing suitability of a new product design?</b></u>
- Marketability;
- e.g. whether there are innovative features that make the product stand out from the competitors.
- Suitability to meet customer needs;
- and what the target market will be. 
- Distribution channel;
- and what levels of commission are to be paid.
- Profitability;
- and how sensitive the profit is.
- Capital requirements;
- and what are the financial resources available to finance these capital requirements.
- The risks involved;
- and the extent of underwriting carried out to minimise these risks.
- Existing products and how they are compactible with the new product;
- regarding administration systems, etc.
- Whether the staff need retraining.
- The costs involved for the launch.
- Treating customer fairly requirements and whether the product meets these.
- Whether there are any other regulatory or legal constraints.
- The onerousness of any options and guarantees.
- The level and form of reinsurance.
- The extent of any cross-subsidies.
- Whether current service standards can still be met.
- The impact on the company's reputation.
- Any environmental, social, and governance (ESG) considerations.
- The impact on the company's tax position.
- Whether there is credible data available.

<u><b>Q1(ii): What are the risks to the company from launching critical illness product?</b></u>
**Morbidity risk**
- Both products introduce material morbidity risk.
- The risk is that the level of critical illness claim is much higher than expected;
- or much earlier than expected.
- This is a new risk to the company and so it will have limited experience data to base assumptions on.
- The company could be exposed to higher claims than expected as it has little experience to set assumptions;
- and not very credible and relevant industry data to benchmark against.

**Mortality risk**
- There is the risk that there are more deaths than expected.
- The mortality risk for the accelerated critical illness (ACI) product will be very similar to the existing term assurance (TA);
- since the product will pay out on death if this is earlier than diagnosis.
- For the standalone critical illness (SCI) product, the company is exposed to mortality being lighter than expected from the date of diagnosis until the end of the survival period.
- Higher mortality than expected will result in lower premiums than expected.
- The mortality risks for the new product will not be exactly the same as the company's TA products as the population may have a different demographic.

**Persistency risk**
- Both products increase the risk for the company of higher than expected lapses.
- More than expected lapses early on in the contract may mean the company is unable to recoup initial expenses.
- The company is also exposed to selective withdrawals.
- The company is exposed to the risk of higher than expected persistency later on in the policy;
- and late-duration lapses will likely be low for these products.
- The company is exposed to the risk of existing TA policyholders lapsing and taking out a CI cover as they believe they will benefit more from this.

**Reviewable premiums**
- Reviewing premiums may have an adverse effect on lapses.
- If premium rates are increased, this could lead to reputational risk, especially if policyholders were not aware of the extent of possible increases.
- This could lead in turn to lower new business volumes.

**Expense risk**
- The company is exposed to higher than expected expenses from its new products.
- This is particularly prevalent for new protection products with high underwriting costs.
- Expense inflation could also be higher than expected.
- The company is exposed to higher regular expenses than expected.
- Higher development costs that expected is also a risk.

**New business risk**
- There is a risk that competition introduces a more attractive product, resulting in a fall in new business.
- New business volumes could also fall if there is a downturn in the economy, meaning that there is less disposable income to purchase such products.
- The company therefore faces the risk of not recouping development costs;
- as well as not being able to contribute to the product's fair share of overheads.
- If the company had cross-subsidised in its pricing, it will be exposed to the risk that the business mix is not as expected; 
- potentially leading to lower profits than expected.
- The average size of the CI policy may be smaller than expected, resulting in lower profits than expected.
- There is a risk of more policies being sold than expected, causing a capital strain;
- and a strain on administration.

**Operational risk**
- There is risk of admin and data errors;
- and IT failures.
- There is also the risk of poor customer service, especially if training is insufficient.
- The policyholder may be mis-sold the products.
- There is a risk that policyholders did not understand the product, e.g. not appreciating the survival period for the SCI.
- The product might not actually meet the policyholder's need.
- The company is exposed to the risk of non-disclosure from customers, e.g. not disclosing any pre-existing conditions.
- This may be exacerbated due to the influence of financial advisers.
- There is the risk that the correct underwriting standards are not applied, leading to incorrect pricing.
- Any delays in product launch could have an adverse impact on the company, adversely affecting sales.
- There may be key person risk if only one person has the expertise on these new products.
- Any mis-selling allegations could result in regulatory fines.

**Conduct risk**
- There is a risk that the company's behaviour will result in poor outcomes for customers.
- For example, not keeping up with the market's critical illness (CI) definitions, and so potentially not meeting policyholder's expectations.
- Conduct risk could arise from the outcome of the premium review.
- There is a risk that companies will be liable for higher claims than expected if their claim criteria are misleading.

**Model risk**
- There is the risk that the pricing and/or reserving model has been incorrectly specified;
- or correctly specified but incorrectly built;
- or inappropriately used.
- Any model risk may result in product mispricing.

**Counterparty risk**
- There could be counterparty default risk exposure in relation to assets held to back these liabilities, eg if holding corporate bonds.
- As the company uses financial advisers, it is exposed to the risk of them not paying premiums over.
- If reinsurance is used, then this will expose the company to reinsurer default risk.

**Liquidity risk**
- For policies with large sums assured, higher than expected claims could result in the company not having sufficient capital to pay out when due.

**Market risk**
- Due to the products being protection products, with low reserves, market risk is unlikely to be material.
- The company is still, however, exposed to any credit spread widening on its matching bonds. Regulatory/legal risk
- The company is exposed to regulatory changes, such as mandatory conditions which need to be covered.
- There is also a risk that tax changes may affect the profitability of the product.

<u><b>Q1(iii): What is the three lines of defence?</b></u>
- The first line of defence is business operations;
- with a well defined control environment embedded in day-to-day operations.
- The second line of defence is oversight functions;
- which have responsibility for production, implementation, and monitoring of risk management policies and procedures.
- The third line of defence is independent assurance providers (i.e. internal and external audit);
- and involves the evaluation and challenge the organisation's risk management processes.
- Strong communication skills are key between lines.

<u><b>Q1(iv): What are the actions that can be taken to reduce risk?</b></u>
- The company should embed risk polices throughout the organisation. 

**Managing morbidity and mortality risk.**
- The company should ensure appropriate underwriting (i.e. in line with policy wording and assumptions) is used;
- both at outset;
- and at point of claim.
- The company should make use of medical professionals to assess morbidity and mortality risk.
- To avoid the risk of non-disclosure, initial underwriting should involve the use of appropriate / unambiguous questions on application forms. 
- The company should seek appropriate reinsurance cover;
- e.g. some form of proportional reinsurance. 
- Reinsurers may also provide expertise in pricing;
- providing data, etc.
-  Underwriting - to deter non-disclosure, medical reports should be sought for randomly selected applicants. 
- The company could carry out genetic testing, if permitted, for high-risk individuals.
- Reinsurance could help with underwriting.
- The company could reinsure only large polices, with large sums assured.
- The company should ensure all reinsurance treaties are checked by the legal team and signed by both parties.
- The company could diversify the mortality risk by possibly replacing some existing product lines with, for example, annuities.
- The company could actively encourage policyholders to stay healthy, e.g. offer discounted premiums if they attend the gym.

**Monitoring of the experience of the new product**
- The company should monitor the claims experience to ensure it is as expected;
- and any significant departs from expectations should be investigated and fed back into the pricing cycle.
- The company should make use of credible and reliable data to ensure pricing and valuation assumptions are up-to-date. 
- Before launch, the company should carry out customer surveys to ensure policy premiums are affordable.
- Post launch, the company should carry out regular monitoring of sales volumes;
- including competitors' sales and prices.
- The company may have to redesign or reprice to ensure marketability.
- New business should be monitored to ensure the mix is as expected.
- The company could manage solvency risk;
- by carrying out sensitivity/stress testing.

**Managing persistency risk**
- A retention team should be set up to help in understanding why policyholders lapse.

**Managing expense risk**
- Expense outgo could be fixed by outsourcing;
- being mindful of any resulting counterparty risk.

**Managing operational risk**
- Employees should receive sufficient training on new products. 
- Financial advisers should be vetted to ensure they are appropriately qualified. 
- Policy terms and conditions should be clear and not misleading.
- Regular checks should be carried out to detect potential fraud, and the company could set up annual fraud detection training for employees.
- Appropriate data governance and controls should be in place.
- Monitoring service standards will help to highlight where there are problems.
- User acceptance testing should be carried out before launch.
- To avoid reputational risk, the company should monitor policyholder and financial adviser feedback and act upon it accordingly.
- Thorough model validation before use should be carried out.
- The company should consider taking out key person insurance.
- Business recovery plans should be in place.

**Managing conduct risk**
- The company should embed a robust framework to avoid poor customer outcomes. 

**Managing counterparty risk** 
- The credit risk policy should reflect the company's risk appetite with appropriate maximum exposure limits; 
- and credit risk exposure should be monitored to ensure it is within limits. 
- The company should make use of collateral arrangements.
- It could also enter into a credit default swap arrangement.

**Managing liquidity risk**
- The company should carry out regular monitoring of liquidity levels to ensure they are within the company's risk appetite.
- Assets and liabilities should be closely matched by performing regular ALM exercises.
- The company could also manage any liquidity risk by entering into a post loss funding arrangement with a bank.

**Managing market risk**
- If the company decided to mismatch, it could reduce any resultant market risk by investing in less risky assets.

**Other**
- The company should ensure management receives regular information on risks so that it can compare with its risk appetite and act accordingly when triggers are breached. 
- The company should make use of control accounts to ensure different sources reconcile and so minimise any unexplained movement. 
- Increasing new business volumes may help reduce random fluctuation risk. 
- Working closely with the regulator to be aware of potential regulatory changes;
- and working with industry bodies to help set standards, should avoid surprises. 
- The company could undertake a pilot launch to test the market and systems.

<u><b>Q1(v): What are the concerns with treating customers fairly?</b></u>
**Consumers can be confident that they are dealing with firms where TCF is central to the corporate culture:**
- Premiums between different groups of policyholders may be perceived as unfair or discriminatory. 
- Premiums may be increased to unreasonable and unexpected levels after the first five-year review.
- The company may introduce contract terms that are considered unfair, such as short claim-reporting windows.

**Products and services designed to meet the needs:** 
- The policy may not meet the needs of the policyholders the products are marketed to. 
- If the company adopts an aggressive sales policy, the products may not be targeted appropriately.

**Consumers are provided with clear information:** 
- Marketing and disclosure material may be unclear or misleading.

**Consumers receive suitable advice:**
- If financial advisers are used, they may provide incorrect advice to policyholders on the terms and conditions of the contract.

**Consumers are provided with products that perform as firms have led them to expect:**
- The critical illness criteria may not be clear and may not reflect the actual criteria applied at claim. 
- For any ambiguous claim definitions;
- the company's interpretation of the claim definition may differ from that of the policyholder. 

**Consumers do not face unreasonable post-sale barriers:**
- The claims process may be extremely onerous, putting policyholders off from claiming. 
- There may be unreasonable barriers to surrender a policy, such as high surrender penalties. 

**Additional points** 
- The company may not cover any new critical illnesses which arise, whereas the policyholder may expect them to be covered. 
- Policyholders may believe they have cover for a condition when they do not.
- Product may be too complex for policyholders to understand. 
- For SCI, there may be issues relating to the lack of payout on death if death was within the survival period. 
- If permitted, the company may perform genetic testing which may act as a barrier to apply for insurance.
- Policyholders may experience unreasonable delays in claim settlement. 
- The company may add new conditions, which are perceived as 'critical', for new business only.
- If the company does alter contract terms, it may not be made clear to policyholders. 
- Customer service may be poor;
- due to poorly trained staff.
- If remuneration of advisers is deducted from policyholder premiums;
- the remuneration may not be transparent to the policyholder.
- Policyholder charges may not be made clear at outset, i.e. there is 'small print' that is not transparent.
- There may be a lack of controls, which could lead to company insolvency;
- or increased exposure to fraud for policyholders.