<u><b>Q2(i)</b></u>
**What is the process for Co Y to transfer liabilities from Co X to Co Y?**
- The company needs to obtain court approval.
- The company needs a report on the scheme of transfer.
- This scheme has to be produced by an independent expert (IE) appointed by the firm.
- The independent expert has to be approved by the regulator.
- The IE report would primarily assess the impact of the transfer on the transferring Co X policyholders and existing Co Y policyholders.
- The IE report would primarily consider policyholder benefits and benefits expectations, the security of benefits, and wider TCF issues.
- Before it gives its sanction to the transfer, the Court needs to be satisfied that the companies concerned have adequately publicised the scheme and adequately communicated with all policyholders involved.
- The company would need to send a statement setting out the terms of the scheme.
- The company would need to send a summary of the IE's report that it is sufficient to indicate their opinion on the effect of the transfer on the interest of the policyholders involved.
- The Court must also be satisfied that the company to which the business is being transferred to (Co Y) is authorised to carry on that type of business;
- and after the transfer will be able to cover its regulatory capital requirements.
- Any person can be heard by the Court if they feel that the transfer would adversely affect them.

<u><b>Q2(iii)</b></u>
**What are the reasons for change in tax position?**
**Overall**
- Co Y is currently be in XSI position prior to the transfer, so I must exceed E on its BLAGAB business;
- and the I-E computation must have been higher than the minimum profits test.
- As Co Y would become XSE after the inclusion of Co X business, then Co X is likely to be XSE on a standalone basis;
- and these unrelieved expenses must be higher than the difference between I-E calculation and the minimum profits for Co Y.
- Co X may have more significant BLAGAB portfolio and hence would dominate the combined BLAGAB tax position.

**Increase in expenses**
- Co X might have high expenses that would now be included in the Co Y fund.
- Co X may have had high acquisition costs in previous years that are spread over future years.
- As Co X is recently established, it may still be carrying forward the initial costs in establishing the Company.
- Co X may not have been run efficiently;
- which could be the reason why it was sold.
- Co X may have had relatively high fixed expenses;
- as it has not had long to build up sufficient business to generate economies of scale.
- Co X sold protection business, which will be high in expenses.
- The protection business might have formed the majority of what was sold.
- There may be additional expenses arising from the transfer (i.e. extracting the synergies) partly allocated to the BLAGAB and hence increase Company Y's expenses in the short term.
- Co Y may expect to write significantly higher levels of new BLAGAB business which will incur high initial expenses.

**Reduction in income**
- As Co X is relatively new, it will have built up only a relatively small fund of assets and so will generate relatively little investment income.
- Similarly, Co X sold protection business which generates relatively little investment income.
- As the protection business was sold before 1 January 2013, it will all be included in the BLAGAB calculation.
- For the unit-linked business, there will be limited investment income from the non-unit reserve.
- Co X may have invested in low yielding assets.

**Increase in minimum profits**
- Co Y may wish to weaken the valuation basis going forward;
- leading to higher minimum profits (due to release of reserves) and therefore more likely to be XSE as the minimum profit test bites.
- If possible, it may weaken the valuation basis to free up capital to support the merger.