<u><b>Q2(i)</b></u>
**What are the legislation that affect gender-pricing?**
- The Equality Act 2010 is the key anti-discrimination law for the UK.
- It prohibits insurers from directly or indirectly discriminating on the basis of a protected characteristic.
- Gender is one of those protected characteristics.
- Direct discrimination refers to treating someone less favourably as a result of their gender.
- Indirect discrimination refers to treating everyone in the same way, but particularly disadvantages people of a particular gender.
- Insurers need to avoid using proxy factors (i.e. factors that are highly correlated with gender) as this may be deemed indirect discrimination.
- The EU Gender Directive was aimed at implementing principle of equal treatment between men and women in access and supply of goods and services.
- There was initially an opt-out for financial services and insurance products provided conditions were met. 
- This was removed by CJEU for new business written on or after the date.
- Reviewable premiums are not treated as new business for the purpose of the legislation.
- In some areas, there were already requirements to offer unisex rates in some areas, i.e. annuities with protected rights.

<u><b>Q2(ii)</b></u>
**What are the implications of gender-neutral pricing on pricing?**
**Pricing**
- The insurance company can no longer price on the basis of gender.
- So it will need to offer the same price for males and females.
- Prior to the ruling, the pricing basis would have assumed females lived longer than males.
- This may have been supported by company's past experience, industry data or national statistics.
- So prior to the ruling, standard annuities cost more for females than males.
- So under unisex pricing, it is likely males will be worse off and females will be better of.
- The actual position will depend on how the company sets its unisex rates in relation to the previous rates.
- For example, it could set unisex rates to the male rate, the female rate or an average of the two.
- The impact is much smaller for joint life annuities sold to a male and a female.

**New business mix**
- The company needs to make an assumption about the expected mix of males and females that will purchase its annuities at each age. 
- This gender data should still be captured on new business proposal forms for monitoring purposes.
- The company will then need to monitor this mix regularly;
- and reprice if the experience is different from expected.
- The business mix will likely change following the unisex pricing.
- The proportion of females buying annuities is likely to increase as unisex rates should be cheaper than female rates.
- The proportion of males buying annuities is likely to decrease, e.g. they may choose income drawdown.
- The company may decide to target a particular sector of the market that has a high proportion of males.
- For example, it could target specific occupations which could be highly correlated with gender.
- However, the company needs to be careful that targeting particular groups does not constitute indirect discrimination.
- If the company underestimates the proportion of women that buys its annuities then its experience is likely to be worse than expected;
- and losses will result.
- A risk margin could be added to the pricing basis to reflect uncertainty in business mix.
- The margin could be withdrawn as the mix stabilises.
- The company may target a particular sector by being more price competitive for this sector and less competitive elsewhere.
- Or it may target a particular sector in other ways, e.g. advertising in magazines predominantly bought by men.

**Competition**
- The company is exposed to greater risk of anti-selection if it is out of line with the rest of the market.
- The company needs to consider what competitors are doing.
- Both in terms of when they plan to comply with the new regulation;
- and how they are planning to change their rates.

**New business volumes**
- Business volumes may be different before and after the introduction of unisex rates.
- In the run up to the change, there could be a sharp increase in applications from men who want to buy an annuity on better terms offered by gender specific rates.
- Conversely, women are likely to deliberately defer buying an annuity until after unisex rates are introduced.

**Underwriting**
- The company may try to improve its risk classification by introducing other rating factors which aren't excluded under the new regulation, e.g. postal code or location.
- The company may decide to introduce medical underwriting.
- The company could enter the market for impaired life annuities if it has not already done so.
- If the company already sells enhanced annuities it needs to consider the implications on the sales of these products as well as standard annuities.
- But the ruling will have a less significant impact on impaired life annuities as the medical impairment may have a greater impact than gender on expected lifetime.

**Reinsurance**
- The company will need to consider the impact of the changes on any existing reinsurance terms;
- and consider whether any new reinsurance should be put in place.
- Reinsurers may still be able to price according to gender.

**Business plans**
- If annuities are not a significant product line for the company, it may decide to stop writing annuities.
- The company may consider selling more business in non-EU markets, where ruling does not apply.
- It should be noted there is no impact for existing business, only for new business sales.

**Reserves**
- Reserves can still be set according to gender.
- However, overall capital requirements may be higher, at least initially;
- due to uncertainties on new business mix. 
- The cost of this additional capital could reduce annuity rates.

**Expenses**
- Changes to new business volumes would change per policy expenses.
- Additional expenses will be incurred due to changes needed to be made to pricing/quotation systems and marketing literature.

<u><b>Q2(iii)</b></u>
**What are the implications of gender-neutral pricing on risk management?**
**General points**
- The company needs to reassess all of its key risk areas in light of the ruling.
- The company may decide to introduce more frequent monitoring of risks;
- and more frequent risk reporting to senior management.

**Market risk**
- Unisex rates are better value for money for women than men, so it is likely a greater proportion of sales will be to women than in the past.
- As women live longer on average, the company will need to match this liability with more longer dated bonds than in the past. 
- There is a risk the company does not modify its investment strategy to take account of the revised business mix. 
- It could have invested in bonds that are too short, and so be exposed to risk of falling interest rates.
- Controls will be needed to ensure that the new business mix is monitored and feeds into bond selection.

**Operational risk**
- There may be risks of mis-selling in respect of new business written just prior to or after the change;
- with corresponding reputational risks.
- For example, women might complain that they were sold an annuity based on female rates when they would have received a better unisex rate shortly afterwards.
- Project risks may occur in relation to implementation of the changeover. 
- For example, revised annuity rates may be incorrectly determined or applied.
- These project risks can be controlled by good project management, system testing, staff training.
- The company will need to assess the impact of any changes in new business volumes on its operational risks.
- Sales are likely to be quite lumpy as there may be high volumes sold to men who are trying to get the better male rates before the change, and similarly, high sales to women who wait until just after the change to get unisex rates.
- The resulting high sales volumes in a short period may increase the risk of poor customer service.
- Controls may be introduced to limit new business volumes.
- There may be risks relating to the servicing of complaints, e.g. relating to mis-selling.
- There may be risks of a legal challenge if the company uses rating factors that are considered to be a proxy for gender.
- Marketing literature may be overlooked or updated incorrectly.

**Longevity risk**
- There is a risk of anti-selection as women may be more likely (and men less likely) to purchase an annuity with unisex pricing.
- Anti-selection could be controlled by increased underwriting (e.g. new rating factors), monitoring the business mix by gender, and increased reinsurance.
- Anti-selection may be more prevalent amongst policyholders who are aware of the relative life expectancies between males and females.

**Expense risk**
- There is a risk of expense overruns in relation to the development of new systems and processes, revising annuity rates.
- There is a risk that new business volumes fall by more than the expected result as a a result of the change;
- and hence fixed expenses may no longer be covered. 

**New business mix risk**
- There is a risk that the split between males and females is different to that expected.

**Credit/counterparty risk**
- If the company decides to introduce more insurance as a result of the ruling , the reinsurers need to be added to the counterparty exposure list and monitored appropriately.
- The company will need to assess the likelihood of default of any new reinsurers;
- and also assess if any existing agreements will be impacted by the change. 

**Liquidity risk**
- There may be short-term implications for liquidity if policyholders decide to advance or defer their retirement around the implementation date of the change.
- Controls will be needed to focus on monitoring and anticipating changes in these retirement patters;
- and ensuring there are adequate liquid asset holdings to cover any temporary uncertainty.

<u><b>Q2(iv)</b></u>
**How to model expected future mortality for pricing new annuity**
**Objectives**
- Mortality rates need to be determined for each rating factor used in pricing.
- The main rating factor will be age, but other factor such as premium size or location may be used.

**Gather data**
- The company could use industry mortality tables as the base table (e.g. one of the CMI '00' or '08' tables).
- It would then compare its own experience against the base table (to analyse actual experience against expected from the base table).
- Reinsurers may be able to provide additional data and expertise.

**Adjust data for different features of the contract**
- The base table should be adjusted to reflect the company's actual experience and intended target market.
- An assumption has to be made about the expected new business mix by gender. We would expect a higher proportion of females following the introduction of unisex rates.
- If the company sells impaired life or enhanced annuities, then the mortality tables for this business would have to be modelled based on knowledge of mortality rates under different medical outcomes.
- The mortality rates for standard business would have to reflect the likely better than average health of those policyholders since they have not chosen to purchase an impaired life annuity.

**Adjust data for improving longevity**
- The data then needs to be adjusted to allow for expected improvements in future mortality.
- The rate of improvement would need to reflect the expected mix of males and females.
- Mortality projections tend to involve an element of each of the expectation, extrapolation and explanatory approaches. 
- Mortality projections can be based on information supplied by experts or industry bodies (e.g. CMI).
- But this should be adjusted for the company’s own experience.
- However, the insurer is unlikely to have sufficient historical data with which to identify trends fully.
- Assumptions may therefore be based on analysis of population or pension scheme data, with adjustments.
- Mortality improvements in the UK exhibit a ‘cohort' effect.
- This is due to changes in lifestyles or habits (such as smoking) being more marked within a specific cohort.
- The company will need to consider whether and how to apply the cohort effect to its own policyholders.
- The company could use a stochastic mortality projection methodology.
- For example, the P-spline and Lee-Carter approaches.
- More complex underlying statistical models could be used e.g. including postcode as a proxy to socio-economic factors.
- Cause-specific mortality rates could be modelled.
- Although this is very difficult to do in a robust way, particularly allowing for interactions between the factors.
- Assumptions at very old ages are very uncertain as there is very limited data.

**Expectation, extrapolation, and explanatory approaches**
- Expectation approaches involve expert opinion and subjective judgement to specify a range of future scenarios.
- Extrapolation approaches are based on projecting historical trends in mortality into the future.
- Such methods also require some element of subjective judgement; for example in the choice of period over which such trends are to be determined.
- Explanatory, or process based projections attempt to model trends in mortality rates from a bio-medical perspective. 
- These projections are only effective to the extent that the processes causing death are understood and can be mathematically modelled.

**Add margins**
- There is model, parameter, and stochastic uncertainty.
- So a margin should be included by assuming lower mortality rates.

**Reserving**
- Pricing needs to project reserving assumptions as well as experience assumptions, e.g. to allow for cost of capital in the profit test.
- The reserving assumptions need to be consistent with the projected experience basis mortality assumptions described above.
- The reserving assumptions need to meet regulatory requirements.
- For example, they must contain sufficient prudential margins.

<u><b>Q2(v)</b></u>
**What are the implications of using a longevity swap?**
**Advantages**
- Longevity swaps can be used to hedge the longevity risk of the annuity business.
- Future unknown annuity payments are converted into a fixed cost and so the longevity uncertainty is removed for the insurance company.
- Using longevity swaps should reduce the company’s solvency capital requirements, e.g. under ICA.
- The balance sheet will be more stable in future periods.

**Disadvantages**
- Investment risk is not hedged under a longevity swap arrangement.
- As a result of the transaction, the company has increased its counterparty risk, i.e. it is exposed to the risk that the counterparty defaults on its obligations.
- There will be a cost involved, e.g. a fee to the counterparty.
- Potential future profits arising from worse than expected future longevity will accrue to the counterparty.
- The company may have to post collateral but this may increase liquidity risk.
- If the floating payments are based upon the actual annuity payments, then the insurance company has indemnified itself against its longevity risk.
- However, if the floating payments are based upon a generic population mortality index, then the insurance company retains an element of basis risk.
- The company will incur costs administering the swap.
- Longevity swaps could be more expensive/cheaper than reinsurance cover and so less/more preferable.
- Swap agreements on gender neutral policies may require the mix of business between male and female to be within a specific range for the counterparty to be able to assess expected future cashflows.
- There will be a risk that the new business mix targeted is not attained.
- The company may have little experience of these arrangements and could accept inappropriate terms.
- It therefore may need to seek external advice on the arrangement.
- Changes in regulation may make these arrangements more or less advantageous.