<u><b>Q1(i)</b></u>
**What are future policy related liabilities?**
- Cost of guarantees
- Cost of smoothing
- Cost of financial options
- Cost of planned future enhancements

<u><b>Q1(ii)</b></u>
- $AS = 10,000 * 1.05^2 * 0.9 = 9,923$
- $SAS = 10,000 * (1.01^2 * 1.05)^{1/3} * (1.01 * 1.05^2)^{1/3} * 0.9 = 10,499$
- $GB = 8,000 * 1.03^2 * 0.9 = 7,638$
- $Payout = max(GB,SAS) = 10,499$
- $COG = max(GB, AS) – AS = 9,923 – 9,923 = 0$
- $COS = Payout – max(GB, AS) = 10,499 – 9,923 = 576$

<u><b>Q1(iii)</b></u>
- $\text{FER in 2014 and 2015 = average of -50\% and 0\% = -25\%}$
- $AS = 10,000 * 0.75^2 * 0.9 = 5,063$
- $SAS = 10,000 * (1.01^2 * 0.75)^{1/3} * (1.01 * 0.75^2)^{1/3} * 0.9 = 7,499$
- $GB = 8,000 * 1.03^2 * 0.9 = 7,638$
- $Payout = max(GB, SAS) = 7,638$
- $COG = max(GB, AS) – AS = 7,638 – 5,063 = 2,575$
- $COS = Payout – max(GB, AS) = 7,638 – 7,638 = 0$

<u><b>Q1(iv)</b></u>
**What management actions are likely taken in this scenario?**
- The company may reduce reversionary bonuses as investment returns are negative.
- This decreases the guaranteed benefit.
- The COG decreases as the guarantee is biting.
- The COS increases if the GB decreases to below the SAS, such that COS = SAS - max(GB, AS).
- The company may reduce the equity backing ratios to protect solvency.
- This increases the investment return.
- The COG decreases since AS increase.
- The COS decreases since AS would increase more rapidly than the SAS due to three-year averaging.
- The company may reduce or suspend smoothing.
- This decreases the smoothed asset share.
- The COG does not change.
- The COS decreases if the payout were based on the smoothed asset share (i.e. other actions were taken such as lower reversionary bonuses causing the guarantee to no longer bite).
- The company may change the MVR, as there may be PRE there would be some smoothing on withdrawals in this extreme investment environment.
- The withdrawal benefit would be larger than the asset share.
- The cost of guarantees does not change.
- The cost of smoothing increases on withdrawals.

**What policyholder actions are likely taken in this scenario?**
- The model may assume fewer policyholders withdraw and claim the withdrawal benefit, and instead wait two years and claim the guaranteed maturity benefit.
- The COG increases.
- The COS increases.
- Alternatively, the company may assume more policyholders withdraw but this contradicts the cost of guarantee and cost of surrender calculations in stress.

**What are the limitations to both actions?**
- For each management action, it has to comply with PPFM, PRE, TCF.
- There may be delays in implementing management actions, i.e. due to: 
- PRE on how quickly bonuses can change,
- delays in selling equities in a depressed market,
- system constraints.

<u><b>Q1(v)</b></u>
**Why insurers do not assume more onerous reserve?**
- Under Solvency II, insurers must make best estimate assumptions on policy behaviour.
- Assuming all policyholders take the GAO when it is in the money, or do not take the GAO when it is out of the money is unlikely and overly prudent.
- Because policyholders may have different personal needs.
- Because policyholders may have different financial conditions.
- Therefore, fully rational behaviour is not appropriate for BEL.

**Why policyholders may or may not exercise the option when in the money?**
- The policyholder may take the lump sum, due to needing the benefit in cash rather than annuity payments.
- Possibly to pay off an outstanding loan, 
- Or personal plans such as to go for a holiday.
- The policyholder may take the lump sum, or a portion of, if there are legislation or tax advantages.
- There may be pensions legislation allowing a portion or the full lump sum that may be taken.
- The insurer will need to assume how much tax-free lump sum is taken.
- The policyholder may take the lump sum, if open market rates for annuities are better than the GAO.
- For example, the market may have gone through significant repricing, e.g. gender-neutral pricing.
- Which could lead to female annuities having better rates than the GAO.
- The policyholder may take the lump sum, if the policyholder is in ill health and is eligible to buy an impaired life annuity.
- The impaired annuity will have better rates than standard life annuities.

**What happens after the GAO event?**
- It is likely those who are in better health take the GAO as they expect to live long, while those in poorer health take the lump sum.
- There is anti-selection risk.
- The company will need to assume lighter mortality for the policyholders taking the GAO. 

<u><b>Q1(vi)</b></u>
**What are the conditions to use prospective approach for with profits benefit reserve (WPBR)?** 
- The prospective approach must take account of all guaranteed benefits.
- The prospective approach must take account of the need for TCF.
- The prospective approach must use a sufficiently long projection term to account for all material cashflows arising from the contracts.

<u><b>Q1(vii)</b></u>
**How to set bonuses for with-profits whole life assurances?**
- Asset shares could be used to set bonuses and payouts for whole life assurances.
- However, death benefit equal to asset share may be unreliable.
- In early durations, asset share may be low on early death (due to PRE for higher cover than just return of premiums).
- In later durations, asset share may be low or negative if earlier deaths have paid more than the asset share.
- The company could use specimen endowment contracts to maintain consistency with previous approach.
- The company could use a prospective method.
- The company needs to consider the assets backing the reserve and the asset shares.
- If the whole life asset shares are very different to the current implied assets required for the expected payout, these need to be rebased.
- This may be inconsistent in total or by cohort.
- Any inconsistencies should be addressed before the new approach is implemented.
- The company needs to ensure the approach is consistent with the PPFM, PRE, and TCF.
- Changes need to be applied gradually due to PRE over payouts.
- The company would need to set rules on how bonuses increase with duration as there would not be a natural maturity date on whole life contracts on which to equate asset shares.
- The company could consider creating a new bonus series going forward.
- The company could consider converting the whole life policies to without profits, but this is likely to go against PRE and may create bad publicity.
- The company should consider the views of the Chief Actuary.
- The company should consider the views of the With-Profits Actuary.

<u><b>Q1(viii)</b></u>
**How to calibrate a simplified model?**
- The simplified model needs to be calibrated to give a good fit to the scenarios of a more complex model.
- The company needs to consider how many scenarios to use.
- Too many scenarios may make it difficult to fit the model.
- Too few scenarios may make it too simplistic to represent the full range of outcomes.
- The company needs to consider how many parameters to use in the polynomial.
- Too many parameters may result in overfitting and give false accuracy.
- Too few parameters may result in underfitting and a good fit cannot be achieved.
- The company will need to ensure the scenarios chosen cover all management actions.
- Because it is the management actions which make the fitting of models complex.
- The company must choose scenarios which give a good fit in both the base scenario and in a range of stressed scenarios.
- The company needs to ensure the different stressed risk drivers selected would result in overall 1/200 stress.
- Ensuring a suitable fit in the tails is important, but difficult.
- A goodness of fit tool would help, but trial and error are likely required.
- Once the polynomial is fitted, the company must choose other scenarios to check the goodness of fit.
- Further iterations on fitting may be required if the fit is inadequate.
- If full policy-by-policy run takes too much time or resources, the company may consider model points.
- The model points need to adequately represent the ungrouped policies in terms of, for example, the moneyness of guarantees.
- Large differences would require investigation and/or recalibration.
- TAS 100 should be followed.
- Documentation will be vital.
- The company may seek validation from external parties.