<u><b>Q1(i)</b></u>
**Why stop selling without profits immediate annuities?**
- The annuity business may be unprofitable.
- The pensions legislation removes restrictions on the retirement benefits that can be taken from pension schemes. 
- As a result, the company may expect new business sales to reduce. 
- Particularly as the increased flexibility would mean fewer people will take the annuity as many would be interested to take the benefits as a lump sum.
- The company may be unsure how to price the annuities following the legislation change. 
- Hence it may stop sales until it is clearer what the position is likely to be.
- The company may want to avoid anti-selection.
- As those in good health are more likely to purchase annuities.
- Annuities may have been considered poor value for money in the Press;
- due to lower interest rates and improved longevity.
- It may no longer be economical to sell lower expected volumes of annuities due to increased per-policy expenses and possible inability to cover fixed expenses.

**Why choose to sell alternative products?**
- The company may believe these products can replace the lost profits from not selling immediate annuities.
- The company may believe it can increase profitability by helping cover fixed costs.
- By offering two products, the company is gaining diversification, which may reduce capital requirements.
- The competitors may be reacting to competitors,
- or reacting to input from distributors.

**Why choose to sell equity release product?**
- The demand for these products may be growing in the UK;
- due to aging population;
- and strong house price inflation;
- and reduction in financial support offered by pensions.
- Many may have built up equity in their homes.
- The company may believe it can use the income form Product B to support the capital requirements for Product A.
- It may believe that individuals reaching retirement would invest their pensions cash sums in the property market, thus increasing potential for this market. 

**Why choose to sell without profits endowment contracts?**
- The company may believe demand for such products would be high given the competitive guarantees.
- It could be an alternative to an annuity, or for a specific purpose.
- The company will need capital to fund the equity release product and it may believe that this single premium product will provide such capital. 
- The company may believe that it will be offering a niche contract and as such volumes may be very high resulting in high additional profits.

<u><b>Q1(ii)</b></u>
**Product A - Longevity**
- Changes in longevity/mortality relative to expected would increase or decrease the value of the asset. 
- This would be linked to interest rates. 
- However, this is unlikely to be significant risk.
- Assuming that profits are loaded into the interest rate charged to the customer;
- it is more likely increased longevity will increase the value of the asset on average;
- since the increase in loan amount to be repaid should exceed the discount rate used to value the asset;
- hence the present value of repayment of the loan is higher the further away it is expected to occur.
- However people living longer could exacerbate the risk of the house value being less than the loan repayable.
- This is because the loan continues to increase at the fixed interest rate and over the longer term, the loan could overtake the value of the house.
- And there is more risk of a house price crash over the longer period.
- So longevity risk increase the capital required.
- Overall longevity is a risk, but it is unclear how significant it is.

 **Product A - Mortality**
- Higher mortality reduces profits, but reduces capital requirements.
- If assets and liabilities are well matched;
- where assets are the expected loan repayments under this product;
- and the matched liabilities are either those under Product B;
- or when the portfolio has grown a sufficient size, the matched "liabilities" are the up-front cash amounts paid to new Product A policyholders;
- then if longevity/mortality is different to expected this would create a mismatch risk.
- Mortality risk increases substantially if the house value is less than the loan.
- There is also some mortality risk early on;
- if initial costs are not recouped.

**Product B - Longevity**
- There is no longevity risk as the sum assured is payable on maturity or earlier death.
- The sum assured will be greater than the premium so there will be a sum at risk.

**Product B - Mortality**
- There is mortality risk in the product as higher than expected deaths will mean that payments are made earlier than expected, reducing profits.
- However, mortality risk is not significant for Product B.

<u><b>Q1(iii)</b></u>
**What are the considerations in setting early exit penalties?**
**For both products**
- Consideration needs to be given to TCF requirements.
- For example, there should be no unreasonable barriers to exit. 
- The penalties set have to be fair to both continuing and surrendering customers.
- The company should only reflect in the penalties the loss of future profits that were expected to be made;
- which would be small for Product B policies that are close to maturity.
- For Product B, the company may choose to reduce any penalties by the future expected maintenance expenses which may no longer be incurred.
- This will help to ensure that the surrender value does not appear too low compared with premiums paid, particularly at short durations.
- The company should consider the penalties imposed by any competitors offering similar products. 
- It will want to appear attractive in the market so will not want any penalties to be out of line with competitors.
- The penalties should be easy to calculate. 
- The penalties should cover the cost associated with processing the early redemption, e.g. sending out payment and updating systems.
- The terms of the penalty should be documented and explained to the customer at outset.
- The resulting surrender value should be smooth by duration.
- The company cannot change the terms of the penalty without a valid reason.
- The penalties should not be subject to frequent change unless dictated by economic conditions.

**Product A**
- There is a risk the policyholder repays the loan early when market interest rates are low and better rates can be obtained elsewhere.
- The penalty should reflect the resultant loss to the company, based on the difference between future interest it would have received on the loan and the income it would receive on investing the repayment.

**Product B**
- There is a risk that policyholders surrender the product if they think they can get a better return by investing in other savings products;
- as higher interest rates will lead to lower values for the assets backing Product B.
- In particular, the company may incur a loss if it has used Product A as an asset to match Product B's liabilities. 
- Any such loss should be reflected in the penalty.
- Customers may surrender early for other reasons. In this case. provided borrowing rates at the time are lower than the guaranteed rate of return, no penalty should apply.
- The penalty could be reduced by future mortality costs under Product B, as there will be no longer be required.
- However, these may not be significant and so may be ignored.

<u><b>Q1(iv)</b></u>
**Product A**
- Age
- Current interest rates
- Fixed interest rate being charged as part of product design
- Expected future expenses

**Product B**
- Outstanding term
- Current investment returns available in market
- Guaranteed rate available as part of product design
- Expected future expenses

<u><b>Q1(v)</b></u>
**What are the factors to consider in product design for these two products?**
**Profitability**
- The company will be looking to achieve its profit margin.
- It will want to cover a proportion of its overheads.
- Ideally, it will want to make sure business volumes are sufficient to be able to cover development costs;
- and achieve the profit criteria.
- To assess this, the company will need to model using best estimate assumptions in the pricing model.
- These assumptions will include new business volumes, mix of business, longevity, mortality, etc.
- It has no experience in these types of products;
- so would likely seek external advice, such as from reinsurers.
- Due to uncertainty involved in future experience, the company may price high risk margins;
- but it will need to consider how this will impact the marketability of the product.
- The profit criteria could be defined as NPV, IRR, DPP, etc.
- The company will want to consider how the products appear in the published accounts in order to assess the impact on its embedded value, etc.
- Pricing assumptions on long-term care transfer rates, future house price growth, and early redemptions will be required for Product A.
- Pricing assumptions on the investment return available will be required for Product B.

**Marketability**
- The products need to appear attractive to customers;
- particularly in comparison to similar products offered by competitors.
- The comparison could be based on price and/or innovative features.
- Product A:
- The marketability will depend on the amount of loan available, interest charged, and any early exit charges.
- The marketability will also be impacted by what the State is providing in terms of pension and long-term care provision.
- It will also depend on how this product fits with any other post retirement income the customer may receive.
- Product B:
- Marketability will depend on the premium rates, guarantees offered, and any early exit charges.
- The marketability will also be impacted by the state of the economy, e.g. current interest rates and how they compare to the guarantees being offered.
- The company will need to consider the number of different maturity terms to offer as this will impact the product's attractiveness to the market.
- It will also need to consider the extent to which these terms may change.
- The target market may differ significantly from that for the company's current immediate annuity business.
- It is important that there is a sufficiently large potential market to ensure an adequate volume of sales.
- If seen as a niche product, then competition on price will not be a key factor to consider.
- Early redemption penalties may reduce the marketability of the product.

**Suitability to meet customer needs for defined target market**
- The customer needs met by the two products may be quite different. The company will want to make sure it is able to identify these needs and design the respective products to meet them.
- Product A:
- This product is most suited to those who are income poor and asset rich.
- For example, those who own their homes but have limited other pension provision.
- Some customers may prefer a regular income as opposed to a cash lump sum at outset.
- The fact that the loan is not normally repaid until after death means the cost is met by the estate of the policyholder;
- which therefore reduces payments to dependents and as such may not meet the customer needs.
- Product B:
- The guaranteed terms will be a desirable feature, especially in the general current economic climate of low interest rates. 
- If the customer purchased this product with the idea they would receive a pension in retirement, they will be disappointed if their funds run out, i.e. the product does not meet the need to definitely provide income for the rest of lifetime.
- As the product does not offer any protection over the risk of living longer than expected, it may not meet the customer's concerns over running out of funds during their lifetime.

**Distribution method**
- The distribution method chosen will be important.
- Both products are quite complex and will need explanation in order to help the customer choose the right product. 
- The company may choose independent advisers as opposed to a form of direct marketing.
- The company will need to decide how to remunerate the chosen distribution channels. 
- This is likely to be via upfront payment.
- The company needs to allow for any related initial costs in its premium/charges accordingly.
- However, it may be paid by the customer directly in the form of adviser fee.
- Product A:
- The customers are likely to be older so financial advisers who offer face to face consultancy may be the most appropriate channel.
- Product B:
- Product B has the added complexity of customers needing to choose the particular maturity dates, which leans to financial advisers being the most appropriate channel.

**Financing / capital requirements**
- The company will need to make sure it has sufficient capital to support the products.
- It should look at how they are treated under current solvency capital requirement regulations.
- If it has insufficient existing capital, the company may need to raise additional capital and so it should consider the costs in doing so.
- Product A:
- This product design requires a large amount of capital upfront, in order to provide the loan to the policyholder.
- Product B:
- As this is a single premium savings product, it will be expected to have relatively low financing capital requirements.
- Consider whether the products meet certain regulatory requirements that would allow the company to hold lower reserves. For example, neither product sems to meet the matching requirement adjustment under Solvency II.
- The company may want to consult experts to look at a restructuring exercise if this was one of its objectives.
- Product A:
- As well as the upfront loan, there may be other initial costs associated with this product, eg high house valuation expenses. 
- The reserves (or technical provisions) may be high due to the NNEG.
- If the company is relying on the premiums from Product B to fund the upfront payment of Product A, then it will be dependent on the sales from Product B.
- Even if sales overall were sufficient, there may still be a mismatch between Product A and Product B due to the different maturity terms of Product B that customers choose;
- which may lead to risks associated with timing differences, e.g. reinvestment risk or interest rate risk.
- The company could decide to convert some of its existing assets (which are currently backing the immediate annuities) into cash in order to fund Product A;
- but the company may then lose its eligibility to use the matching adjustment under Solvency II (or equivalent under other jurisdictions);
- which will increase the required capital in respect of the existing annuity business.
- Solvency capital requirements may already be very high for Product A, due to the significant risks underlying equity release products.

**Onerousness of any options and guarantees**
- The company will need to achieve a balance between the attractiveness of guarantees and the required supporting capital.
- Product A:
- This product offers a guaranteed loan rate to the customer; 
- which exposes the company to the risk that any rates incurred on borrowing the upfront cash turn out to be higher than this rate. 
- The company may look to hedge this interest rate risk.
- There is also a no negative equity guarantee (NNEG) on this product so the company is exposed to the risk that house values fall below the initial loan accumulated with interest.
- Product B:
- The guaranteed return exposes the company to the risk of not being able to match this rate via its return on assets.
- Product A may be seen as a good match as the loan repayments under Product A could be used to provide the payments under product B. This introduces the risk that sales of Product A are not sufficient to provide this match.
- Product A’s early repayment option will introduce further uncertainty and hence risks for the company. 

**Sensitivity of profit**
- The company should consider the different risks and carry out appropriate stress tests on the products to determine their sensitivities.
- This will help in determining appropriate risk strategies.
- Product A:
- Key risks for this product are:
- house price inflation;
- long-term care transfer rates;
- changes in interest rates (due to nature of long-term cashflows);
- liquidity (due to the need to finance upfront cash payments).
- Product B:
- The product offers guaranteed rate of return and so is exposed to changes in investment returns.
- The company should consider the sensitivity to surrender rates and also consider how this risk will be reduced by any exit penalties.
- The company is exposed to the risk that new business volumes are greater than that assumed when pricing;
- leading to a capital strain and a strain on administration.
- However, the fact that volumes of Product B are limited, as not all maturity terms are available, should help control high business volumes. 
- The company may then decide to limit the potential business volumes for Product A.
- There is also the risk that new business volumes are lower than expected;
- increasing the risk that initial expenses cannot be recouped. 
- Due to the complexity of the products, the company is exposed to operational risk. 
- If the company backs Product B’s liabilities with corporate bonds, then it is exposed to credit risk

**Company reputation / ESG considerations**
- The company would be keen to avoid any potential mis-selling issues.
- The company could consider whether the products meet environmental, social and governance (ESG) standards. 
- Product A:
- The company will want to make sure the customer is aware of any possible impact on their estate before the policy is taken out.
- The company will likely wish to ensure that it is seen as fair to those customers who decide to repay the loan early.
- The company will need to decide how to deal with others who may be living in the house when a policyholder dies. 
- It will also need to consider how it manages and monitors the upkeep of the house.
- Policy B:
- The company will want to make sure that the customer is aware, by purchasing this product, that they still hold the risk of living longer than their funds can provide for.

**Treating customers fairly**
- These are complex products. The company can help to ensure that customers are treated fairly by ensuring that they are fully aware of product characteristics before purchasing.
- Product A
- The company should consider how it treats customers who take-up early repayment to ensure it doesn’t charge a disproportionate amount.

**Legal and regulatory constraints**
- The company should consider the likelihood of any future regulatory changes or constraints in relation to the two types of products;
- such as charge caps;
- or future changes to pension legislation.

**Extent of cross-subsidies** 
- The extent of cross-subsidies between the two products should be considered;
- as any such subsidy will introduce new business mix risk.
- The overall profit target may only be met by both products combined;
- or by larger products subsidising smaller ones.

**Administration systems** 
- As these are new products, there will likely be substantial set-up costs.
- There are likely to be costs incurred on staff training in order to ensure service levels are adequate.
- Such costs will need to be modelled when pricing the two products. 
- The company may consider outsourcing to ensure service standards are at a high level. 
- New sales literature may have to be produced. 

**Taxation**
- The company should be aware of any tax implications of the products on its total corporate tax bill.
- The company should ensure it is advised by appropriate tax specialists, e.g. in relation to the treatment of the equity release asset.
- There may be personal tax implications for the customer which the company should be aware of to ensure customer needs are being met. 
- It will be important to consider any potential future changes to the tax regulations. 

**Underwriting philosophy / Reinsurance** 
- Due to limited mortality risk, underwriting is unlikely to be significant for these products. 
- The company should consider whether to use reinsurance for either product.

<u><b>Q1(vi)</b></u>
**How to manage liquidity risk?**
- The company should aim to match cash outflows with cash inflows.
- The company should ensure that it has sufficient controls in place;
- to identify when the timing and amount of uncertain claims payments, e.g. non-maturity claims under Product B, do not match the timing and amount of the income. 
- Liquidity risk should be appropriately considered in the company’s risk policy;
- and requirements for monitoring, measuring, reporting and limiting the liquidity risk should be set out.
- The company should ensure it holds an adequate amount of liquid assets to allow for unexpected liquidity requirements, e.g. cash holdings. 
- Limiting new business volumes will limit liquidity risk.
- The company should incorporate liquidity risk assessment within its risk-based capital framework.
- Scenario analysis could be used to assess potential liquidity issues in the future.
- The company should identify circumstances in which customers can exercise options, e.g. surrendering under Product B when interest rates are high.
- The company could consider using derivatives to match its liabilities more closely.
- It could consider entering into a counterparty arrangement which provides short-term cash in an emergency, e.g. agreeing lines of credit. 
- The volatility of income from the equity release assets will need to be managed.
- Potential mismatches between cash outflows of loans to customers under Product A and inflows of single premiums under Product B should also be identified. 