
<u><b>Q1(iv)</b></u>
**What are the impacts of legislation removing mandate to purchase immediate annuity?**
**General points**
- The change in the legislation offers more options for policyholders at retirement, other than taking an annuity.
- As a result, the annuity take-up rate would be expected to reduce significantly from the current level.
- In the short term, the experience of take-up may be quite volatile and as such it may take some time for the long-term impact to be determined.

**Market conditions**
- If market annuity rates are poor value for money;
- this would result in fewer policyholders taking an annuity. 

**Target market**
- If the company targets those with shorter life expectancies, i.e. those in relatively poor health, then these customers are more likely to take the cash.
- However, it could be argued that these types of policyholder should still buy annuities. 
- For a given lump sum, the annuity obtained is highest for the most severely impaired lives. 
- So it is this group of policyholders that have the most to gain if they live longer than expected – although they also have more to lose for each month or year that they live less than expected.
- Cash provides greater flexibility.
- Policyholders are more likely to take cash if it can be used to pay off remaining loans or mortgages;
- or purchase luxury items, such as cars or holidays.
- The lower the level of the fund, the more likely policyholders will take remaining amount as cash.  
- There may have been a lack of financial advice being taken before any take-up decision was made.
- Policyholders may therefore not have fully understood the options available to them.
- Policyholders may not have appreciated that the more cash taken now, the higher the risk they face of not being able to fund themselves in later life.

**Availability of alternatives** 
- The greater the availability of alternatives to an annuity product, e.g. income drawdown
- the less likely the policyholder will be to take an annuity and the more likely to take out the alternative.

**Regulation and government influence**
- e.g. availability of State provision in retirement. 
- If this is high, it is more likely that policyholders will take the cash;
- as they may feel the risk of living longer than their savings can provide for has already been met.

**Publicity**
- Any negative reputation of insurance companies will increase the likelihood that the policyholder will take the cash and invest elsewhere.

**Tax** 
- The level of tax and any tax allowances will have an impact on the take-up rate.
- For the tax-free lump sum, the legislation is unlikely to have a major impact.
- Policyholders may not appreciate that by taking the remaining fund value as cash, they may incur more tax than if they took the annuity;
- i.e. there may be a large tax bill for the policyholder in the year they retire as opposed to being taxed by a lower rate of income tax from the future annuity payments. 

<u><b>Q1(v)</b></u>
**What is the potential impact on the take-up rates?**
- The main factor which the impact will depend on is whether or not the guarantee is ‘in the money’ and, if it is, to what extent.
- If the GAO is not ‘in the money’ then the change in take-up rate would be similar to those policies without the option.
- If the guarantee is very heavily ‘in the money’, then the take-up rate is likely to be similar to that before the legislation change;
- i.e. it is likely that policyholders would exercise the option.
- If the guarantee is less heavily ‘in the money’, the impact on the take-up rate will depend on the policyholders’ awareness of the guarantee;
- and their understanding of its value.
- However, even if they do understand the value, policyholders may prefer cash even if it is the less valuable option. 
- The rate at which policyholders take the tax-free lump sum should remain fairly stable following the change.
- Policyholders’ personal circumstances will impact on the take-up rate.
- It may take some time for the take-up experience to stabilise and for the long-term impact to be determined.